Pixel 6

Product environmental report

Model G9S9B, GB7N6 
 introduced October 2021

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business has 

evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic products, 

we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve each product’s 

environmental performance and minimize Google’s impact on 

the world around us. 

This report details the environmental performance of the Pixel 

6 over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing through 

usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 6 phone is designed with the following key features to help reduce 

its environmental impact: 

EPEAT Gold1

PVC-free3

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability1,2

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

The aluminum in the housing is 100% recycled content4

98% paper- and fiber-based packaging

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic products  

generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global temperatures. 

Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this product to identify 

materials and processes that contribute to GHG emissions, with the goal of  

minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

Pixel 6

assuming three years 
of use5: 85 kg CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer use

Recycling

81%

4%

14%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 6 incorporates power-management software to maximize battery-

charging efficiency and extend battery life during use. 

Energy efficiency

Mode

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

of Pixel 6

Standby (battery maintenance mode) 
power6

0.32 W

0.37 W

Annual energy use estimate7

8 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$1.128

8 kWh

€1.719

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 6 is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of the Pixel 6 allow materials to be used more efficiently, 

thereby reducing the energy consumed during production and 

shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used 

in Pixel 6

Total materials10:
207 g

59 g

Battery

34 g

Aluminum

33 g

Display

Recycled materials

The aluminum in the housing 
is 100% recycled content4

11 g

Steel

16 g

Glass

17 g

Plastic

17 g

Other

20 g

Electronics

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Image simulated for 

illustration purposes 

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as 

lead, mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that 

pose environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 6 to meet 

global regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the 

following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 

hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated 

diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, 

DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and cadmium 

in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 

and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

Pixel 6 also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions11: 

restrictions

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 6 uses 98% paper- and fiber-based materials. The 

greyboard used in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled content. 

We have designed the Pixel 6 packaging to minimize its weight and volume, 

which helps conserve natural resources and allows more devices to be 

transported in a single shipping container.

Packaging materials 

Material

for Pixel 6

(U.S. configuration

retail packaging)

Paper- / fiber-based

Plastic

Total packaging

Mass

104 g

2 g

106 g

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business operations

are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. Learn more about 

our expectations for manufacturing partners in the Google Supplier Code 

of Conduct, our 2020 Responsible Supply Chain Report, and our Conflict 

Minerals Policy. 

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6

Page 5

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives—

including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please see our 

Sustainability website and our 2020 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help section of 

our website.

Endnotes

1. 

 EPEAT registered in the US only.

2. 

Pixel 6 is designed with approximately 45% recycled content across its plastic parts.  This does 

not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic components 

and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic 

interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and adhesives.

3.  Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted Substances 

Specification.

4. 

Recycled aluminum (in the housing and other recycled aluminum components) is approximately 14% of 

product based on weight.

5.  GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 requirements 

and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the production, transportation, use, 

and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging.

6. 

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with fully 

charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform 

Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers.

7. 

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will  

vary by user.

8. 

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.14 per kWh (source: U.S. Energy 

Information Agency May 2021 report).

9. 

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.21 per kWh in the second 

half of 2020 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

10.  Product material masses are for the Pixel 6 only, excluding packaging and accessories.  For the U.S. 

configuration, an additional 34 g of electronics accessories can be included in-box.

11.  Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy metals (lead, 

cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted Substances Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6

Page 6

