Pixel 4a (5G)

Product environmental report

Model G6QU3, G025E, 
G025I, G025H 
introduced October 2020

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business has 

evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic products, 

we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve each product’s 

environmental performance and minimize Google’s impact on 

the world around us. 

This report details the environmental performance of Pixel 

4a (5G) over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

Pixel 4a (5G) is designed with the following key features to help reduce its 

environmental impact1: 

EPEAT Gold

Mercury-free LED-backlit display

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability2

Arsenic-free glass

PVC-free

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free

47% post consumer recycled content across its plastic mechanical 

parts3

98% paper and fiber-based packaging

Power adapter with Level VI efficiency rating

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a (5G)

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic products  

generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global temperatures. 

Google conducts a life cycle assessment on products to identify materials 

and processes that contribute to GHG emissions, with the goal of  

minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 4a (5G)4

Total GHG emissions 

assuming three years of use:
65 kg CO2 e

Production

Transportation

Customer use

Recycling

76%

6%

17%

1%

Energy efficiency

Pixel 4a (5G) uses an energy efficient DOE Level VI power adapter5 and 

incorporates power-management software to maximize battery-charging 

efficiency and extend battery life during use. 

Energy efficiency

of Pixel 4a (5G)

Mode

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

Power adapter average efficiency6

84.7% at 5 V output
87.5% at 9 V output

83.8% at 5 V output
87.3% at 9 V output

Power adapter no-load power7

0.02 W

Standby (battery maintenance mode) 

0.39 W

power8

Annual energy use estimate9

7 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$0.9110

0.02 W

0.38 W

7 kWh

€1.5411

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a (5G)

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 4a (5G) is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of Pixel 4a (5G) allows materials to be used more efficiently, thereby 

reducing the energy consumed during production and shipping as well as 

minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used 

in Pixel 4a (5G)

Total materials:

171 g12

52 g

Battery

34 g

Display

25 g

Plastic

8 g

Other

15 g

Electronics

17 g

Steel

20 g

Aluminum

Recycled materials

47% post consumer recycled content across its plastic mechanical 

Battery

parts3

Lithium-ion polymer

Free of cadmium, lead, and mercury1

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as 

lead, mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 4a (5G) to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 
hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated 
diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, 
DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and cadmium 

in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 

and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a (5G)

Page 4

Voluntary substance 

Pixel 4a (5G) also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions1: 

restrictions

Mercury-free LED-backlit display

Arsenic-free glass

PVC-free

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free

Packaging

Packaging for Pixel 4a (5G) uses 98% paper and fiber-based materials. The 

chipboard material used in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled 

content. We have designed Pixel 4a (5G) packaging to minimize its weight 

and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and allows more 

devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Packaging materials 

Material

for Pixel 4a (5G)

(U.S. configuration

retail packaging)

Paper / fiber-based

Plastic

Total packaging

Mass

142 g

3 g

145 g

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business operations

are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. Learn more about 

our expectations for manufacturing partners in the Google Supplier Code

of Conduct, our 2019 Responsible Supply Chain Report, and our Conflict 

Minerals Policy.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a (5G)

Page 5

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives—

including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please see our 

Sustainability website and our 2019 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help section of 

our website.

Endnotes

1. 

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances, including definitions for what Google considers 

to be “free of,” in the Google Restricted Substances Specification. 

2. 

EPEAT registered in the US only. 

3. 

This does not include plastics in external power supply, electronics, optical components and films, 

coatings and adhesives.

4.  GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 requirements 

and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the production, transportation, use, 

and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging.

5. 

Level VI is the highest available efficiency rating for power adapters as defined in the International 

Efficiency Marking Protocol for External Power Supplies Version 3.0.

6. 

Average efficiency of power adapter when input and output power is measured at 25%, 50%, 75%, and 

100% of rated output current and averaged. Tested in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy 

Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

7. 

Power measured when the power adapter is plugged into an AC power source without being 

connected to the product. Tested in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy Uniform Test 

Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

8. 

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with fully 

charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform 

Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers. 

9. 

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will vary by 

user.

10. 

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.13 per kWh (source: U.S. Energy 

Information Agency June 2020 report).

11. 

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-28 was €0.22 per kWh in the first half 

of 2019 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

12. 

Product material masses are for Pixel 4a (5G) only.  For the U.S. configuration, an additional 92 g of 

electronics accessories can be included in-box.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a (5G)

Page 6

