Google Pixel 2 XL
Product environmental report

Model G011C, introduced October 4, 2017Environmental

Sustainability

at Google

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to 

improve each product’s environmental performance

and minimize Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance

of Google Pixel 2 XL over its full life cycle, from design

and manufacturing through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 2 XL phone is designed with the following key features to help 

EPEAT registered 

with silver rating 

for sustainability1

reduce its environmental impact:

Mercury-free pOLED display

Arsenic-free glass

PVC-free

Brominated flame retardant-free

99% paper and fiber-based packaging

Power adapter with Level VI efficiency rating

Standby power less than 0.5 W

Product Environmental ReportPage 2Google Pixel 2 XL, Model G011CGreenhouse gas

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic products 

generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global temperatures. 

Google conducts a life cycle assessment on products to identify materials 

and processes that contribute to GHG emissions, with the goal of

minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG

Emissions for Pixel 2 XL

(64 GB Model)2

Total GHG emissions over

three-year life cycle:
71.5 kg CO2e

51.5 kg CO2e 

3.6 kg CO2e

16.3 kg CO2e 

0.1 kg CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer use

Recycling

72.1%

5.0%

22.8%

0.1%

Energy efficiency

Pixel 2 XL uses a power adapter with a Level VI efficiency rating3  and 

incorporates power-management software to maximize battery-charging 

efficiency and extend battery life during use.

Energy efficiency

Mode

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

of Pixel 2 XL

Power adapter average efficiency4

83.5% at 5 V output

82.5% at 5 V output

86.0% at 9 V output

85.9% at 9 V output

Power adapter no-load power5

0.016 W

0.017 W

Standby power (battery maintenance mode)6

0.39 W

0.38 W

Annual energy use estimate7

9.3 kWh

9.1 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$1.218

€1.929

Product Environmental ReportPage 3Google Pixel 2 XL, Model G011CMaterial use

Pixel 2 XL is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of Pixel 2 XL allows materials to be used more efficiently, thereby 

reducing the energy consumed during production and shipping as well

as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used

in Pixel 2 XL

Total materials:
175 g10

46 g (26.3%)

Aluminum

53 g (30.3%)

Battery

8 g (4.6%)

Miscellaneous

30 g (17.1%)

Electronic components

25 g (14.3%)

Display assembly

13 g (7.4%)

Other metals

Pixel 2 XL battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Free of cadmium, lead, and mercury

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as

lead, mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 2 XL to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium,

hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), and

polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury,

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Product Environmental ReportGoogle Pixel 2 XL, Model G011CPage 4Voluntary substance

Pixel 2 XL also meets the following Google voluntary substance restrictions:

restrictions

Mercury-free pOLED display

Arsenic-free display glass

PVC-free

Brominated flame retardant–free

Packaging

Packaging for Pixel 2 XL uses 99% paper and fiber-based materials.

The chipboard material that forms the underlying structural layer of the

box base and lid is made of 100% recycled content. We have designed

the Pixel 2 XL packaging to minimize its weight and volume, which helps 

conserve natural resources and allows more devices to be transported

in a single shipping container.

Packaging materials

Material

for Pixel 2 XL

(U.S. configuration

retail packaging)

Paper

Plastics

Total packaging

Weight

256 g

2 g

258 g

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business operations 

are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. Learn more about 

our expectations for manufacturing partners in the Google Supplier Code 

of Conduct, our 2016 Creating a Responsible Supply Chain report, and our 

Conflict Minerals Policy.

Product Environmental ReportPage 5Google Pixel 2 XL, Model G011CLearn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives—

including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please see our Environment 

website and our Environmental Report: 2017 Progress Update.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help section

of our website.

Endnotes

1.

This product is EPEAT registered in the United States only.

2.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 requirements

and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments and include the production, transportation, use,

and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging.

3.

Level VI is the highest available efficiency rating for power adapters as defined in the International

Efficiency Marking Protocol for External Power Supplies Version 3.0.

4.

This is the average efficiency of the power adapter when input and output power is measured at 25%, 50%, 

75%, and 100% of rated output current and averaged as part of testing in accordance with the U.S. Department 

of Energy Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

5.

Power is measured when the power adapter is plugged into an AC power source without being connected 

to the product. Testing is done in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy Uniform Test Method for 

Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

6.

Power is measured with the phone in standby mode with a fully charged battery and while attached to

the power adapter. Testing is done in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy Uniform Test Method 

for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers.

7.

Estimated energy use is based on fully charging the battery once per day with the phone attached to the 

power adapter for 12 hours and leaving the power adapter plugged into AC power without the phone 

attached (i.e., no load) for 12 hours. Testing is done in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy 

Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers.

8.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.13 per kWh (source: U.S. Energy

Information Agency May 2017 report).

9.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the European Union was €0.211 per kWh in

the second half of 2015 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

10.

Product material weights are for Google Pixel 2 XL only. For the U.S. configuration, an additional 91 g

of electronic accessories can be included in-box.

Product Environmental ReportPage 6Google Pixel 2 XL, Model G011C