Pixel 7a 

Product environmental report

Model GWKK3, G0DZQ
  introduced May 2023

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve 

each product’s environmental performance and minimize 

Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance of the 

Pixel 7a over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 7a is designed with the following key features to help reduce 

its environmental impact: 

UL Ecologo Gold1,2

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Designed with recycled aluminum to reduce its carbon 

footprint4

99% plastic-free packaging5

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7a

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas 

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic 

products generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global 

temperatures. Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this 

product to identify materials and processes that contribute to GHG 

emissions, with the goal of minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 7a

assuming three 
years of use:6 59 kg 
CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer Use

Recycling

81%

3%

15%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 7a incorporates power-management software to maximize 

battery-charging efficiency and extend battery life during use.

Energy efficiency of 

Pixel 7a

Standby (battery maintenance 
mode) power7

Annual energy use estimate8

Annual cost of energy estimate

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

0.14 W

0.19 W 

7 kWh

US$1.129

7 kWh

€1.7710

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7a

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 7a is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of the Pixel 7a allows materials to be used more efficiently, 

thereby reducing the energy consumed during production and 

shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used in 

Pixel 7a

Total materials:11 
194 g

55 g

Battery

34 g

Display

33 g

Aluminum

14 g

Other

14 g

Steel

18 g

Electronics

26 g

Plastic

Recycled materials

Pixel 7a is made with over 21% recycled materials based on 

product weight

The aluminum in the housing is 100% recycled content12

The Pixel 7a back cover is made with 67% recycled plastics13

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as lead, 

mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose 

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 7a to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7a

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and 

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

restrictions

Pixel 7a also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions:14 

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 7a uses 99% plastic-free materials.5 We have 

designed the Pixel 7a packaging to minimize its weight and volume, 

which helps conserve natural resources and allows more devices to 

be transported in a single shipping container.

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business 

operations are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. 

Learn more about our expectations for manufacturing partners in the 

Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our 2022 Supplier Responsibility 

Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy. 

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability 

initiatives— including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please 

see our Sustainability website and our 2022 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help 

section of our website.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7a

Page 5

Endnotes

1.

2.

 UL Ecologo-registered in the US only.

Pixel 7a is designed with approximately 40% recycled content across its plastic parts. 

This does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels,  cables, connectors, 

electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 

components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and 

adhesives.

3.

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted 

Substances Specification.

4.

Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party verified life cycle assessment. 

Recycled aluminum is approximately 15% of product based on weight.

5.

Based on retail packaging (excluding adhesive materials) as shipped by Google. To meet 

the request of some clients, plastic stickers are applied to some packaging variations.

6.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 

requirements and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the 

production, transportation, use, and recycling of the product, accessories, and 

packaging. 

7.

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode 

with fully charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with 

the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery 

Chargers. Energy consumption patterns may vary when adaptive charging is enabled.

8.

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption 

will vary by user.

9.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.16 per kWh (source: U.S. 

Energy Information Agency Feb 2023 report).

10.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.25 per kWh in 

the first half of 2022 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11.

Product material masses are for the Pixel 7a only, excluding packaging and accessories. 

For the U.S. configuration, an additional 34 g of electronic accessories can be included 

in-box.

12.

Recycled aluminum is at least 15% of the product based on weight.

13.

The recycled plastic in the back cover accounts for approximately 39% of the product 

plastic based on product weight. This does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, 

labels,  cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, 

electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) 

components, films, coatings and adhesives.

14.

Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy 

metals (lead, cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted 

Substances Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7a

Page 6

