Pixel 5a with 5G

Product environmental report

    Model G1F8F 
introduced August 2021

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business has 

evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic products, 

we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve each product’s 

environmental performance and minimize Google’s impact on 

the world around us. 

This report details the environmental performance of Pixel 5a 

with 5G over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 5a with 5G phone is designed with the following key features to 

help reduce its environmental impact:

EPEAT Gold1

PVC-free3

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability1,2

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

98% paper- and fiber-based packaging

Power adapter with Level VI efficiency rating4

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 5a with 5G

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic products  

generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global temperatures. 

Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this product to identify 

materials and processes that contribute to GHG emissions, with the goal of  

minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 5a with 5G

assuming three years 
of use5: 60 kg CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer use

 76%

4%

19%

Recycling

 1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 5a with 5G uses an energy efficient DOE Level VI power adapter4 

and incorporates power-management software to maximize battery-

charging efficiency and extend battery life during use. 

Energy efficiency

of Pixel 5a with 5G

Mode

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

Power adapter average efficiency6

84.6% at 5 V output
87.4% at 9 V output

83.6% at 5 V output
86.9% at 9 V output

Power adapter no-load power7

Standby (battery maintenance mode) 
power8

0.03 W

0.22 W

Annual energy use estimate9

7 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$0.9810

0.02 W

0.22 W

7 kWh

€1.4911

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 5a with 5G

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 5a with 5G is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing 

the size and weight of the Pixel 5a with 5G allow materials to be 

used more efficiently, thereby reducing the energy consumed 

during production and shipping as well as minimizing the amount 

of packaging.

Materials used 

in Pixel 5a with 5G

Total materials12:
183 g

64 g

Battery

35 g

Display

8 g

Other

12 g

Steel

13 g

Electronics

19 g

Plastic

32 g

Aluminum

Recycled materials

Pixel 5a with 5G is made with approximately 19% recycled 
materials based on product weight

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such 

as lead, mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants 

that pose environmental and health risks. We designed the 

Pixel 5a with 5G to meet global regulations that restrict harmful 

substances, including the following:

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 5a with 5G

Page 4

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and cadmium 

in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 

and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

The Pixel 5a with 5G also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions13:

restrictions

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 5a with 5G uses 98% paper- and fiber-based 

materials. The greyboard used in the box base and lid is made with 100% 

recycled content. We have designed the Pixel 5a with 5G packaging to 

minimize its weight and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and 

allows more devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Packaging materials 

Material

for Pixel 5a with 5G

(U.S. configuration

retail packaging)

Paper- / fiber-based

Plastic

Total packaging

Mass

128 g

2 g

130 g

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working conditions 

in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all workers are treated 

with respect and dignity, and that business operations are environmentally 

responsible and ethically conducted. Learn more about our expectations for 

manufacturing partners in the Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our

 2020 Responsible Supply Chain Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 5a with 5G

Page 5

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives—

including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please see our 

Sustainability website and our 2020 Environmental Report. 

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help section of 

our website.

Endnotes

1. 

EPEAT registered in the US only.

2. 

Pixel 5a with 5G is designed with approximately 14% recycled content across its plastic parts and 

approximately 24% biobased plastic across its plastic parts. This does not include plastics in printed 

circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, 

electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films 

coatings and adhesives.

3.  Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted Substances 

Specification. 

4. 

Level VI is the highest available efficiency rating for power adapters as defined in the U.S. DOE 

International Efficiency Marking Protocol for External Power Supplies Version 3.0.

5. 

 GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 requirements 

and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the production, transportation, use, 

and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging.                                              

6. 

Average efficiency of power adapter when input and output power is measured at 25%, 50%, 75%, 

and 100% of rated output current and averaged. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform Test 

Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

7. 

Power measured when the power adapter is plugged into an AC power source without being 

connected to the product. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for Measuring 

the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

8. 

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with fully 

charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform 

Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers.

9. 

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will vary by 

user.

10. 

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.14 per kWh (source: U.S. Energy 

Information Agency May 2021 report).

11. 

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.21 per kWh in the second 

half of 2020 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

12. 

Product material masses are for the Pixel 5a with 5G only, excluding packaging and accessories.  For 

the U.S. configuration, an additional 84 g of electronics accessories can be included in-box.       

13.  Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy metals (lead, 

cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted Substances Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 5a with 5G

Page 6

