Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  

Date introduced 

September 12, 2023

Progress toward
our 2030 goal 

20% recycled or renewable content1  

Over 38% of manufacturing electricity 
sourced from supplier clean energy 
projects2 

Smarter chemistry3 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free 

Longevity 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max 
feature Ceramic Shield as well as 
IP68 water and dust resistance that 
enhance the durability of the device.4 

Responsible
packaging 

99% fiber-based, due to our work to 
eliminate plastic in packaging5 

100% recycled or responsibly sourced 
wood fibers 

Recovery 

Return your device through
Apple Trade In, and we’ll give it
a new life or recycle it for free.

Responsible manufacturing 

Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets 
strict standards for the protection of people 
in our supply chain and the planet.

100% recycled cobalt in the battery6

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. 

7

Product carbon footprint calculations include in-box accessories as well as packaging.

Our product carbon 
neutrality strategy  

Our goal is for Apple and all the products we make to be carbon neutral by 2030, reducing our 
total carbon emissions to no more than 9.6 million metric tons—at least a 75 percent reduction 
against our 2015 baseline. The only way to reach this ambitious goal is to substantially 
decarbonize our products.  

Our plan to decarbonize products is rigorous and focuses on transitioning to clean electricity, 
designing with recycled and low-carbon materials, and prioritizing lower-carbon ways of 
shipping products, like with ocean freight. Only after we’ve substantially reduced emissions 
will we apply credits from high-quality carbon removal projects to achieve carbon neutrality. 

How we are reducing emissions 

Transition to 100% clean electricity for manufacturing: To eliminate emissions from the 
electricity used to make products, we’re prioritizing manufacturing energy efficiency and 
helping to transition our entire supply chain to 100 percent clean electricity.8 

Transition to 100% clean electricity for product use: To gradually negate emissions from 
the electricity our customers use to charge their Apple products, we’re prioritizing product 
energy efficiency and investing in clean energy projects around the world. 

Prioritize non-air transportation: To reduce emissions from transporting products, we’re 
prioritizing the use of lower-carbon non-air shipping modes, like ocean or rail. 

Use recycled and low carbon materials: To address emissions generated by using primary 
materials, we’re increasing the recycled content of our products, maximizing material and 
manufacturing efficiencies, and improving yields. And where we’ve not yet fully transitioned 
to recycled content, we’re prioritizing low-carbon materials, such as aluminum smelted with 
hydroelectricity. 

How we’ll get to net zero emissions 

For emissions that remain after reductions, we and our suppliers are supporting nature-based 
solutions that result in high-quality carbon credits. These play an important role in addressing our 
climate crisis, as nature-based solutions contribute to the health of ecosystems in addition to 
removing carbon from the atmosphere. We are aligned with the scientific consensus that these 
solutions should only be deployed alongside aggressive emissions reductions.  

How we’re monitoring progress 

We first calculate the final carbon footprint of the product using a life cycle carbon analysis 
approach, in accordance with international standards. To help ensure our work is translating to 
real reductions, we consider what emissions would have been without our actions. We apply 
the following assumptions to create this baseline scenario: 

No use of clean electricity for manufacturing or product use, beyond what is already available 
on the grid (based on regional emissions factors). 

Apple’s carbon intensity of key materials as of 2015. Carbon intensity of materials reflects 
use of recycled content and production technology.  

Apple’s average mix of transportation modes (air, rail, ocean, ground) by product line across 
three years (fiscal years 2017 to 2019) to best capture the baseline transportation emissions 
of our products. 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

2

Progress toward carbon neutral 

We’ve reduced emissions for iPhone 15 Pro by 28 percent against our baseline.9 
iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max contain 20 percent recycled or renewable content, 
reducing iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max emissions by nearly 6 percent. We’re 
also working with our suppliers to transition to 100 percent clean electricity for Apple 
production. The clean electricity solutions that suppliers have already implemented to 
date have reduced iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max emissions by 21 percent.

92 kg 
Baseline emissions9

-26 kg 
Emissions reductions

Recycled and low-
carbon materials10

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Materials  
and process 
emissions

66 kg 
iPhone 15 Pro 
emissions11

Clean
electricity12

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Transportation

Transportation

Transportation

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

3

Taking responsibility for 
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials.

We sell millions of products. So making even small 
adjustments can have a meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials 
Maximize recycled content 
in products and responsibly 
source primary materials

Recover 
Reuse products through 
Apple Trade In and maximize 
material recovery at end of life

Make 
Make products responsibly, 
upholding high standards of labor 
and human rights and minimizing 
our environmental impact

Use 
 Minimize emissions from 
product use, enhance product 
longevity, and seek to avoid 
exposure to harmful chemicals

Package  
and Ship 
Eliminate plastic from our 
packaging and minimize 
emissions from transportation

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

4

Source Materials 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max contain a total of 20 percent 
recycled or renewable content.1 

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. 
Apple also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium 
smelters and refiners to participate in third-party audits.13 We’re proud to be recognized as a 
worldwide leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs 
also consider the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use 
of hundreds of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect 
people and the environment.

Aluminum. Our focus on Apple’s 
carbon footprint extends to the 
materials we source. We use 
100 percent recycled aluminum 
in the internal structural frame 
of iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 
Pro Max.

Rare earth elements. We 
use 100 percent recycled rare 
earth elements in all magnets, 
representing 100 percent of 
the total rare earth elements 
in the device.14

Copper. We’re now using 
100 percent recycled copper foil 
in the main logic board and—in 
a first for Apple—the MagSafe 
inductive charger, as well as 
100 percent recycled copper 
wire in the Taptic Engine.

Plastic. We’re transitioning 
from fossil fuel–based plastics to 
renewable or recycled alternatives. 
For iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro 
Max, we use 35 percent or more 
recycled plastic in multiple 
components.

Tungsten. We use 100 percent 
recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 
99 percent of the total tungsten 
in the device.

Cobalt. We use 100 percent 
recycled cobalt in the battery—a 
first for Apple.6 This achievement 
is part of our April 2023 
commitment to transition to 
100 percent recycled cobalt in 
all Apple-designed batteries 
by 2025.

Tin. We use 100 percent recycled 
tin in the solder of multiple printed 
circuit boards.

Gold. Apple is building a gold 
supply chain of exclusively 
recycled content. We’re now using 
100 percent recycled gold in the 
plating of multiple printed circuit 
boards and—in a first for Apple— 
the USB-C connector as well as 
the wire of all cameras in iPhone 
15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated 
flame retardants, PVC, phthalates, arsenic in the display glass, and mercury.3 And 100 percent 
of the materials in iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are covered by our Regulated 
Substances Specification. We go beyond what’s required by aiming to understand the non-
regulated substances in every part of every product—an effort that requires an industry-leading 
level of transparency through the entire supply chain. We consistently identify the makeup of 
over 80 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

5

Make 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for 
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that 
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance 
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people are 
treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce suppliers’ environmental impact. Our requirements 
apply across our supply chain and include the responsible sourcing of materials. From the strong 
foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition to clean electricity, 
to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting final assembly 
suppliers in reducing waste. For more information, see apple.com/supplier-responsibility. 

Greener chemicals 

Zero Waste to Landfill 

Supplier energy use 

All established iPhone 15 Pro and 

No established iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 

Over 38 percent of manufacturing 

iPhone 15 Pro Max final assembly 

15 Pro Max final assembly supplier sites 

electricity is sourced from supplier clean 

supplier sites use safer cleaners and 

generate any waste sent to landfill.16

energy projects, supported by Apple’s 

degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes, as determined by 

methodologies like the GreenScreen® 

assessment.15

Supplier Clean Energy Program.2

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

6

Package and Ship 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max packaging is 99 percent 
fiber-based, which brings us one step closer to our goal of removing 
plastic from all our packaging by 2025. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.17 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.18 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water. 

As we transport our products from our manufacturers to our consumers, we’re prioritizing less 
carbon-intensive shipping modes than air transport, such as rail and ocean.

99% 

of the packaging5
is fiber-based, due to 
our work to eliminate 
plastic in packaging  

67% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood 
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests17

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

7

Use 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max use 48 percent less energy 
than the energy conservation standard.19 

We design our products to be energy efficient, long-lasting, and safe. iPhone 15 Pro and 
iPhone 15 Pro Max use software and power-efficient components that intelligently manage 
power consumption. We also run our own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs, where 
our products go through rigorous testing before they leave our doors. Our support continues 
throughout each product’s life cycle, with regular software updates to keep devices current 
and a network of authorized repair professionals to service them, if necessary. To address 
emissions tied to the electricity our products use, we are building clean energy projects and 
engaging with our customers to educate and provide opportunities to support the 
decarbonization of the grid.

Designed to last 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max 
feature Ceramic Shield as well as IP68 
water and dust resistance that 
enhance the durability of the device.4 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based 
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

8

Recover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In, and we’ll ensure it has 
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. And we want the 
materials in our products to live on in other products. That’s why we launched Apple Trade In—it 
offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices and accessories to Apple. Eligible 
devices can be traded in for credit or an Apple Store Gift Card, while accessories and other 
devices can be recycled for free.20 We also offer and participate in product take-back and 
recycling collection programs for 99 percent of the countries where we sell products—and we 
hold our recyclers to high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful substances out of our products 
mean our materials are safer to recover and reuse. 

We’re also creating Apple Recycler Guides to provide guidance for professional 
electronics recyclers on how to safely disassemble Apple products to maximize 
recovery of resources. The guides provide valuable insight into the steps 
for recycling, as well as the recommended downstream material 
recycler for the disassembled parts.

iPhone Recycling 

We designed a disassembly robot, Daisy, to 
take apart iPhone devices into distinct 
components. Our newest disassembly robot, 
Dave, takes the next step: disassembling the 
Taptic Engine to recover materials like rare 
earth elements and tungsten. 

See Dave in Action

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

9

Definitions

Bio-based plastics: Bio-based plastics are made from biological sources rather than from 
fossil-fuel sources. Bio-based plastics allow us to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. 

Carbon footprint: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines and 
requirements as specified by ISO 14040, ISO 14044, and ISO 14067. There is inherent 
uncertainty in modeling carbon emissions due primarily to data limitations. For the top 
component contributors to Apple’s carbon emissions, Apple addresses this uncertainty by 
developing detailed process-based environmental models with Apple-specific parameters. 
For the remaining elements of Apple’s carbon footprint, we rely on industry average data 
and assumptions. We calculate carbon emissions using the 100-year time horizon global 
warming potentials (GWP100) from the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6), including 
biogenic carbon. Our carbon footprint calculation includes emissions for the following life 
cycle phases in CO2 equivalency (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as 
well as the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging. 

• Transport: Includes ground, air, and sea transportation of the finished product and its 

associated packaging from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. Transport of 
products from distribution hubs to end customers is modeled using average distances 
based on regional geography. 

• Use: Apple assumes a three-year period for power use by first owners for iOS, iPadOS, and 

watchOS devices and a four-year period for macOS and tvOS devices. Product use scenarios 
are based on historical customer use data for similar products. Energy use is simulated in 
various ways; for example, by modeling daily battery drain or through performing activities 
like movie and music playback. Geographic differences in the power grid mix have been 
accounted for at a regional level. 

• End-of-life processing: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers 

and the energy used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

For more information on our product carbon footprint methodology, visit apple.com/
environment/answers. 

Low-carbon materials: Refers to materials created using production techniques with reduced 
carbon impact, such as Elysis (a patented technology that eliminates direct greenhouse gas 
emissions from the traditional aluminum smelting process) or aluminum smelted using 
hydroelectricity instead of coal. 

Recycled materials: Recycling makes better use of finite resources by sourcing from recovered 
rather than mined materials. Recycled content claims for materials used in our products have 
been verified by an independent third party to a recycled content standard that conforms to 
ISO 14021.  

Renewable materials: We define bio-materials as those that can be regenerated in a human 
lifespan, like paper fibers or sugarcane. Bio-materials can help us use fewer finite resources. 
But even though bio-materials have the ability to regrow, they are not always managed responsibly. 
Renewable materials are a type of bio-material managed in a way that enables continuous 
production without depleting the earth’s resources. That’s why we focus on sources that are 
certified for their management practices. 

Supplier Clean Energy Program: Since the electricity used to make our products is the largest 
contributor to our overall carbon footprint, we’re helping our suppliers decarbonize their Apple 
production, including by transitioning electricity use to 100 percent clean sources.

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

10

Carbon 
Footprint

Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using a life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology in 
accordance with ISO 14040, ISO 14044, and ISO 14067 standards and based on iPhone 15 Pro 
with 128GB. The LCA boundary for this product includes the physical product and all of its 
components, as well as all in-box accessories.

Greenhouse gas emissions

iPhone 15 Pro
128GB

iPhone 15 Pro Max
256GB

Total product footprint

66 kg CO2e

75 kg CO2e

Apple emissions from utility-purchased
electricity (scope 2)

0 kg CO2e

0 kg CO2e

Life cycle product emissions (scope 3)

66 kg CO2e

75 kg CO2e

• Production

• Transportation

• Product use

• End-of-life processing

GHG reductions achieved9

83%

3%

15%

<1%

↓29%

Note: Percentages may not total 100 due to rounding. 

83%

3%

15%

<1%

↓30%

We’ve also calculated the product carbon footprint for different configurations.

Configuration

iPhone 15 Pro

iPhone 15 Pro Max

256GB

512GB

1TB

71 kg CO2e

83 kg CO2e

107 kg CO2e

75 kg CO2e

87 kg CO2e

110 kg CO2e

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

11

Endnotes

  1 Product recycled or renewable content is the mass of certified recycled material relative to the overall mass of the 

device, not including packaging or in-box accessories.  

  2 We estimate the percentage of electricity-related emissions in our manufacturing that is sourced from clean 

electricity by attributing to our carbon model clean energy procured by our suppliers in the prior fiscal year, based on 
the supplier manufacturing allocations at time of product launch. Included in this number is only clean electricity that 
Apple or its suppliers have procured as part of Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program. 

  3 Apple’s Regulated Substances Specification describes Apple’s restrictions on the use of certain chemical substances 
in materials in Apple products, accessories, manufacturing processes, and packaging used for shipping products to 
Apple’s end customers. Restrictions are derived from international laws or directives, regulatory agencies, eco-label 
requirements, environmental standards, and Apple policies. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates 
except for AC power cords in India, Thailand (for 2-prong AC power cords), and South Korea, where we continue 
to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement. Apple products comply with the European 
Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead such as high-temperature 
solder. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances for new products where technically 
possible. 

  4 iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are splash, water, and dust resistant and were tested under controlled 
laboratory conditions with a rating of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 6 meters up to 30 
minutes). Splash, water, and dust resistance are not permanent conditions and resistance might decrease as a result 
of normal wear. Do not attempt to charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide for cleaning and drying instructions. 
Liquid damage not covered under warranty. 

  5 Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Adhesives, inks, and coatings are excluded from our calculations of 

plastic content and packaging weight. 

  6 All cobalt claims are on a mass balance allocation. 

  7 iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max achieved a Gold rating in the United States and Canada, in accordance with 
IEEE 1680.1 or UL 110, and are listed as such on the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) 
Registry. EPEAT registers computers, displays, and mobile phones based on environmental requirements in these 
standards. For more information, visit www.epeat.net. 

  8 We recognize that even clean sources of electricity have residual carbon emissions across their life cycle (e.g. from 

manufacturing), which we account for when calculating our product scope 3 emissions. 

  9 Carbon reductions are calculated against a baseline scenario: 1) No use of clean electricity for manufacturing or 

product use, beyond what is already available on the grid (based on regional emissions factors). 2) Apple’s carbon 
intensity of key materials as of 2015 (our baseline year for our 2030 product carbon neutrality goal). Carbon intensity 
of materials reflects use of recycled content and production technology. 3) Apple’s average mix of transportation 
modes (air, rail, ocean, ground) by product line across three years (fiscal years 2017 to 2019) to best capture the 
baseline transportation emissions of our products.  

  10 We calculate emissions savings from the use of recycled or low-carbon materials in our products by comparing the 
carbon intensity of key materials today with their 2015 baseline for Apple products. We currently only quantify the 
carbon savings from the use of recycled aluminum, which means the actual emissions avoided are likely larger. We 
plan to improve our accounting of recycled content over time. 

  11 Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using a life cycle assessment methodology in accordance with ISO 
14040 and 14044 standards and based on iPhone 15 Pro with 128 GB storage configuration. The life cycle 
assessment boundary for this product includes the physical product and all of its components and packaging, 
as well as all in-box accessories. 

  12 We estimate emissions savings from supplier clean electricity by allocating to our carbon model clean electricity 
generated by our suppliers in the prior fiscal year, based on the supplier manufacturing allocations at time of 
product launch.   

  13 We map materials in our supply chain and publish a list of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold (3TG), cobalt, and 
lithium smelters and refiners in our supply chain. Third-party assessments seek to confirm sourcing practices and 
are part of our responsible sourcing program. In addition, our efforts consider a broad range of risks, including social, 
environmental, human rights, and governance risks. 

  14 Excludes trace amount of rare earth elements found outside of the magnets. 

 15 Chemicals that meet GreenScreen® benchmark 3 or 4 or other equivalent methodologies like U.S. EPA Safer Choice 
are considered safer and preferred for use. GreenScreen® is a comprehensive hazard assessment tool that evaluates 
substances against 18 different criteria. For more information, visit www.greenscreenchemicals.org. 

  16 All established final assembly supplier sites—those that have been Apple suppliers for more than one year—

for iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are third-party verified as Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL 
requires at least 90 percent diversion through methods other than waste to energy to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill 
(Silver 90–94 percent, Gold 95–99 percent, and Platinum 100 percent) designations.  

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

12

 
 
Endnotes

 17 Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Responsible Fiber Specification. We consider wood fibers 

to include bamboo. 

 18 For more information about our work to protect and create responsibly managed forests, please read our 

Environmental Progress Report. 

 19 Efficiency performance is based on the U.S. Department of Energy Federal Energy Conservation Standards for 

Battery Chargers. Please note that ENERGY STAR does not certify smartphone devices. Energy efficiency terms: 
The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions. 

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C to Lightning 

Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C Charge Cable (1 m) 

measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power adapter’s 
rated output current. 

Power consumption for iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max

Mode

Power adapter, no load

Power adapter efficiency 

100V

0.04W

87.49%

115V

0.04W

88.06%

230V

0.04W

87.81%

 20 Trade-in values vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your trade-in device, and may also vary 

between online and in-store trade-in. You must be at least 18 years old. In-store trade-in requires presentation of 
a valid, government-issued photo ID (local law may require saving this information). Additional terms from Apple 
or Apple’s trade-in partners may apply.

© 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Ceramic Shield, HomePod, iPad, iPad Air, iPadOS, 
iPad Pro, iPhone, Lightning, Mac, the Mac logo, macOS, Taptic Engine, tvOS, and watchOS are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the 
U.S. and other countries and regions. Apple Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries and regions. 
ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered trademarks owned by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Other product 
and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies. 

