Product Environmental Report

Galaxy S23+

2023.02.01

At Samsung, we work to embed eco-conscious technology and
innovation in all of our products. By considering sustainability
throughout the product life cycle, we aim to inspire our
customers to join us in our journey of building a better tomorrow.

UL certified only for the US configuration. [1]

* 

Product Carbon Footprint

To understand the environmental impacts of our products, at Samsung Electronics,
including the sourcing, production,
we assess a product’s entire life cycle,
distribution, product use and recycling phases.

At the production stage, we are aiming to expand the development and application
of recycled materials with a lower carbon footprint. At the distribution stage, we are
working to minimize packaging volume and weight to reduce carbon emissions.
Through initiatives like improving the energy efficiency of chargers, we are trying to
improve the environmental impact at the use stage.

Recycling

Sourcing

Galaxy S23+
Life Cycle Assessment

58.8

kg CO2 eq. [2]

Production

Use

Distribution

Galaxy S23+ life cycle carbon emissions

Production
83.7 %
10%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

Use
9.9 %

* based on UK configuration  [3]

2

Distribution
6.1 %

Disposal
0.3 %

Sourcing

Across the product lifecycle, from raw material sourcing to
disposal and recycling, we are continuing our efforts to
create a circular economy.

To build toward a circular system, we are using recycled
materials and collecting e-waste to extract materials for
reuse. By 2030, we aim for 50% of the plastic used in our DX
products to incorporate recycled resin. By 2050, we
anticipate to see this figure increase to 100%.

Samsung Galaxy S23+ has a wider variety of recycled materials than any other Galaxy
smartphone, including pre-consumer recycled aluminum and glass and post-consumer
recycled plastics sourced from discarded fishing nets, PET bottles and water barrels :

Plastic
The speaker module lower is manufactured using a minimum of 20% repurposed
plastic, by weight, sourced from discarded fishing nets and water barrels. The
external antenna lines are made from a minimum of 10% plastic, by weight, from
recycled PET bottles. The deco film used in the back glass contains a minimum of
80%, by weight, recycled PET. [4]

Aluminum
In the volume keys, side key, and SIM card tray components of the device, a minimum
of 28% of the aluminum, by weight,
is recovered scrap sourced from the
manufacturing processes.

Glass
The Galaxy S23+ is the first device to use Corning® Gorilla® Glass Victus® 2, which
contains an average of 22% pre-consumer recycled glass for front screen and back
cover.

To prevent hazardous substances from entering our products, we inspect
manufactured parts and raw materials rigorously through our chemical management
system.

Our Standards for the Control of Substances Used in Products [5] are based on global
regulations and standards, and we voluntarily established reduction plans for the use
of potentially hazardous substances, such as polyvinyl chloride(PVC), brominated
flame retardants(BFRs), beryllium, and antimony, as well as legally regulated
substances.

Chemical Mgmt.

3

Production

We are expanding the use of renewable energy at our
business sites around the world.

Energy infrastructure and regulations, which vary widely by
jurisdiction, require region-specific transition plans.

Renewable 
Energy

Safety and health 
certification (ISO) at 
our production sites

100%

We plan to run all operations of the DX(Device eXperience)
Division on renewable energy by 2027. [6]

All of our business sites where Galaxy S23+ is produced have
attained ISO14001(environmental management system) and
ISO50001(energy management system) certifications. [7]

Company-wide, we plan to obtain a platinum-level Zero
Waste to Landfill Certification, issued by safety certification
organization Underwriters Laboratories(UL), for all global
operations by 2025.

4

Distribution

To reduce the environmental
impact of our product
packaging, we are replacing plastic packaging and protective
films with paper and recycled materials to the extent
possible.

We are also reducing the volume and weight of packaging to
mitigate Greenhouse Gas emissions in the transportation and
shipping process.

Eco 
Packaging

Our goal is to eliminate all single-use plastics in mobile
product packaging by 2025. Since 2017, we have been
exploring ways to eliminate single-use plastics in packaging
by assessing every aspect of packaging design, down to the
smallest details. [8]

Plastic 
In packaging

1.7%

As a result, Galaxy S23+ contains only 1.7% of plastic in
terms of the total weight of packaging. [9]

Reduced plastic 
in packaging

96.8%

Compared to Galaxy S7, when we began our plastic
packaging elimination initiative, we reduced the use of
plastic in packaging for Galaxy S23+ by 96.8%. [10]

Recycled 
paper

100%

Paper used for the Galaxy S23+ packaging box is 100%
recycled paper. [11]

5

Use

Environmental experts participate throughout product
development at Samsung Electronics so that customer can
more sustainably use our devices.

During the product development phase, our stress tests help
ensure the longevity and consistent performance of our
products. This enables users to enjoy our products for longer
periods of time.

Repair & 
Reuse

Repairability is one of our main priorities in product
development. In August 2022, we expanded the number of
authorized and independent service providers, started a self-
repair program in the US and will continue to expand this
program.

Security Update &
OS Upgrade [12]

5 yrs & 4 gens

Galaxy S23+ has IP68 [13] water
resistance and dust
protection, and we provide four generations of OS upgrades
and five years of security updates .

6

Recycling

To promote the circular economy and a low-carbon society,
we are expanding responsible recycling globally.

Samsung's local
recycling programs provide collection
services tailored to each region for customers disposing e-
waste, and we take back all electrical and electronic waste
regardless of product brand.

Collection

Samsung Electronics has installed used mobile phone and
accessory collection boxes at repair centers in 34 countries
including the US, Brazil, and Spain, to take back e-waste
from customers. We plan to expand the scope of our e-waste
collection system from approximately 50 countries to about
180 countries by 2030.
Collected electronic goods are sorted, pre-processed, and
shredded to be recycled as materials. Some of the materials
like plastic are used for new product manufacturing. We also
internally operate Requirements for Recycling Service
Partners that specify requirements such as compliance
obligations related to EHS-related laws and regulations,
supplier management, and prohibition of
illegal waste
exportation.

7

Endnotes

1. Galaxy S23 series devices sold, distributed, and/or produced for the US market have received UL ECOLOGO
Certification in accordance with UL110 Standard for Sustainability for Mobile Phones.
https://www.ul.com/el

2. The Carbon Trust of the UK calculated greenhouse gases generated in the entire process from product
production to disposal in accordance with the Carbon Footprint Evaluation Standard(PAS 2050) and obtained
the 'CO2 Measured' certification to evaluate product carbon emissions. Based on the certification results,
Samsung Electronics continues to make efforts in the product development stage to improve the
environmental characteristics of the product.

- PAS 2050:2011 – Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of
goods and services
- Product Carbon Footprints : Requirements for Certification v2
- Database : Footprint Expert v4.4, Ecoinvent 3.8

3. System boundary of Life Cycle Assessment

- Production : Pre-manufacturing(Parts and materials constituting the products and its transportation)

and Product assembly by Samsung Electronics / Distribution : From Vietnam to UK / Use : 3 years
use / Disposal : Waste treatment of parts and material

4. Recycled materials have undergone Environmental Claim Validation(ECV) by UL.
Method : Environmental Claim Validation Procedure for Recycled content, UL 2809 – Fifth Edition

- contains minimum 20% PCM : Top speaker module upper & lower, Bottom speaker module upper, Volume

key, Side key

- contains minimum 5% OBP + 15% PCM : Bottom speaker module lower
- contains minimum 10% PCM : Front insert
- contains minimum 80 % PCM : Black Glass Deco Film
* OBP : Ocean Bound Plastic
* PCM : Post Consumer Material

5. Standards for the Control of Substances Used in Products
https://www.samsung.com/us/sustainability/environment/environment-data/

6. Samsung Electronics has joined RE100, in a collaborative effort to reduce indirect carbon emissions from
power consumption, and aims to match electric power needs with renewable energy by 2050 for all
operations globally. As part of this initiative, Samsung Electronics plans to run all operations outside of Korea
as well as the DX Division on renewable energy within five years. The company’s renewable energy sourcing
methods will include, but not limited to, signing power purchase agreements(PPA), purchasing renewable
energy certificates and participating in green pricing programs.

7. Our factory sites are required to meet international standards for ISO14001(environmental management
system) and ISO50001(energy management system) certifications. We also strive to ensure that our suppliers
have robust occupational health and safety management systems in place by encouraging them to attain
certification for international standards and reflect related outcomes in the comprehensive supplier
evaluations. As of 2021, all business sites of Samsung Electronics have attained the certifications and 86% of
suppliers subject to comprehensive evaluation of partner have acquired the certification.

8. History of Galaxy S Eco-Conscious Packaging
https://news.