Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  

Date introduced 

September 12, 2023

Progress toward
our 2030 goal 

20% recycled or renewable content1  

Over 38% of manufacturing electricity 
sourced from supplier clean energy 
projects2 

Smarter chemistry3 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free 

Longevity 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max 
feature Ceramic Shield as well as 
IP68 water and dust resistance that 
enhance the durability of the device.4 

Responsible
packaging 

99% fiber-based, due to our work to 
eliminate plastic in packaging5 

100% recycled or responsibly sourced 
wood fibers 

Recovery 

Return your device through
Apple Trade In, and we’ll give it
a new life or recycle it for free.

Responsible manufacturing 

Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets 
strict standards for the protection of people 
in our supply chain and the planet.

100% recycled cobalt in the battery6

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max. 

7

Product carbon footprint calculations include in-box accessories as well as packaging.

Our product carbon 
neutrality strategy  

Our goal is for Apple and all the products we make to be carbon neutral by 2030, reducing our 
total carbon emissions to no more than 9.6 million metric tons—at least a 75 percent reduction 
against our 2015 baseline. The only way to reach this ambitious goal is to substantially 
decarbonize our products.  

Our plan to decarbonize products is rigorous and focuses on transitioning to clean electricity, 
designing with recycled and low-carbon materials, and prioritizing lower-carbon ways of 
shipping products, like with ocean freight. Only after we’ve substantially reduced emissions 
will we apply credits from high-quality carbon removal projects to achieve carbon neutrality. 

How we are reducing emissions 

Transition to 100% clean electricity for manufacturing: To eliminate emissions from the 
electricity used to make products, we’re prioritizing manufacturing energy efficiency and 
helping to transition our entire supply chain to 100 percent clean electricity.8 

Transition to 100% clean electricity for product use: To gradually negate emissions from 
the electricity our customers use to charge their Apple products, we’re prioritizing product 
energy efficiency and investing in clean energy projects around the world. 

Prioritize non-air transportation: To reduce emissions from transporting products, we’re 
prioritizing the use of lower-carbon non-air shipping modes, like ocean or rail. 

Use recycled and low carbon materials: To address emissions generated by using primary 
materials, we’re increasing the recycled content of our products, maximizing material and 
manufacturing efficiencies, and improving yields. And where we’ve not yet fully transitioned 
to recycled content, we’re prioritizing low-carbon materials, such as aluminum smelted with 
hydroelectricity. 

How we’ll get to net zero emissions 

For emissions that remain after reductions, we and our suppliers are supporting nature-based 
solutions that result in high-quality carbon credits. These play an important role in addressing our 
climate crisis, as nature-based solutions contribute to the health of ecosystems in addition to 
removing carbon from the atmosphere. We are aligned with the scientific consensus that these 
solutions should only be deployed alongside aggressive emissions reductions.  

How we’re monitoring progress 

We first calculate the final carbon footprint of the product using a life cycle carbon analysis 
approach, in accordance with international standards. To help ensure our work is translating to 
real reductions, we consider what emissions would have been without our actions. We apply 
the following assumptions to create this baseline scenario: 

No use of clean electricity for manufacturing or product use, beyond what is already available 
on the grid (based on regional emissions factors). 

Apple’s carbon intensity of key materials as of 2015. Carbon intensity of materials reflects 
use of recycled content and production technology.  

Apple’s average mix of transportation modes (air, rail, ocean, ground) by product line across 
three years (fiscal years 2017 to 2019) to best capture the baseline transportation emissions 
of our products. 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

2

Progress toward carbon neutral 

We’ve reduced emissions for iPhone 15 Pro by 28 percent against our baseline.9 
iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max contain 20 percent recycled or renewable content, 
reducing iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max emissions by nearly 6 percent. We’re 
also working with our suppliers to transition to 100 percent clean electricity for Apple 
production. The clean electricity solutions that suppliers have already implemented to 
date have reduced iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max emissions by 21 percent.

92 kg 
Baseline emissions9

-26 kg 
Emissions reductions

Recycled and low-
carbon materials10

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Materials  
and process 
emissions

66 kg 
iPhone 15 Pro 
emissions11

Clean
electricity12

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Transportation

Transportation

Transportation

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

3

Taking responsibility for 
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials.

We sell millions of products. So making even small 
adjustments can have a meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials 
Maximize recycled content 
in products and responsibly 
source primary materials

Recover 
Reuse products through 
Apple Trade In and maximize 
material recovery at end of life

Make 
Make products responsibly, 
upholding high standards of labor 
and human rights and minimizing 
our environmental impact

Use 
 Minimize emissions from 
product use, enhance product 
longevity, and seek to avoid 
exposure to harmful chemicals

Package  
and Ship 
Eliminate plastic from our 
packaging and minimize 
emissions from transportation

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max  |  Product Environmental Report

4

Source Materials 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max contain a total of 20 percent 
recycled or renewable content.1 

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. 
Apple also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium 
smelters and refiners to participate in third-party audits.13 We’re proud to be recognized as a 
worldwide leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs 
also consider the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use 
of hundreds of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect 
people and the environment.

Aluminum. Our focus on Apple’s 
carbon footprint extends to the 
materials we source. We use 
100 percent recycled aluminum 
in the internal structural frame 
of iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 
Pro Max.

Rare earth elements. We 
use 100 percent recycled rare 
earth elements in all magnets, 
representing 100 percent of 
the total rare earth elements 
in the device.14

Copper. We’re now using 
100 percent recycled copper foil 
in the main logic board and—in 
a first for Apple—the MagSafe 
inductive charger, as well as 
100 percent recycled copper 
wire in the Taptic Engine.

Plastic. We’re transitioning 
from fossil fuel–based plastics to 
renewable or recycled alternatives. 
For iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro 
Max, we use 35 percent or more 
recycled plastic in multiple 
components.

Tungsten. We use 100 percent 
recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 
99 percent of the total tungsten 
in the device.

Cobalt. We use 100 percent 
recycled cobalt in the battery—a 
first for Apple.6 This achievement 
is part of our April 2023 
commitment to transition to 
100 percent recycled cobalt in 
all Apple-designed batteries 
by 2025.

Tin. We use 100 percent recycled 
tin in the solder of multiple printed 
circuit boards.

Gold. Apple is building a gold 
supply chain of exclusively 
recycled content. We’re now using 
100 percent recycled gold in the 
plating of multiple printed circuit 
boards and—in a first for Apple— 
the USB-C connector as well as 
the wire of all cameras in iPhone 
15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max.

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated 
flame retardants, PVC, phthalates, arsenic in the display glass, and mercury.3 And 100 percent 
of the materials in iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are covered by our Regulated 
Substances Specification. We go beyond what’s required by aiming to understand the non-
regulated substances in every part of every product—an effort that requires an industry-leading 
level of transparency through the entire supply chain. We consistently identify the makeup of 
over 80 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max 