Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 13 mini 

Date introduced 

September 14, 2021

Made with better materials

99% 

recycled tungsten

98% 

recycled rare earth 
elements

Energy efficient 

56% 

less energy consumed than the  
U.S. Department of Energy requirements 
for battery charger systems  

Responsible packaging

100% 

 96% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

of the packaging is 
fiber based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

Tackling climate change

100% 

We’re committed to transitioning our entire 
manufacturing supply chain to 100 percent 
renewable electricity by 2030. 

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through 
Apple Trade In and we’ll give it 
a new life or recycle it for free.

First Apple product to use 100 percent certified recycled 
gold—now in the plating of the main logic board.

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 13 mini.

2

Taking responsibility for  
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

iPhone 13 mini    
life cycle 
61 kg carbon 
emissions3

Recover

Package 
and Ship

Use

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by focusing 
on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and with renewable 
energy. Suppliers’ use of renewable energy through our Supplier Clean Energy Program helped 
reduce emissions from production of iPhone 13 mini. And in the enclosure, we use recycled 
aluminum as well as aluminum smelted primarily with low-carbon sources of electricity, like 
hydroelectricity. Overall, with the doubling of our base storage to 128GB, the iPhone 13 mini 
carbon footprint is about the same as the previous generation.4 Apple is committed to using 
carbon life cycle assessments to identify opportunities to drive down product greenhouse gas 
emissions.

iPhone 13 mini  
life cycle carbon emissions 

 85%  Production 

  2%  Transport 

 12% 

 Use 

  <1%  End-of-life processing

2

      iPhone 13 mini 

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

iPhone 13 mini is the first Apple product to use 100 percent certified 
recycled gold in the plating of the main logic board.  

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition,  
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. Apple 
also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium smelters 
and refiners to participate in third-party audits.5 We’re proud to be recognized as a worldwide 
leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs also consider 
the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use of hundreds of 
harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect people and  
the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Tungsten 

Tin 

We use 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in all magnets, representing 
98 percent of the total rare earth elements  
in the device.  

We use 100 percent recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 99 percent of 
the total tungsten in the device. 

We use 100 percent recycled tin in the solder 
of the main logic board and, for the first time, 
the battery management unit.

Plastic 

Gold 

We’re transitioning from fossil fuel–based 
plastics to those made from renewable or 
recycled sources. For iPhone 13 mini, we  
use 35 percent or more recycled plastic in  
10 components. The antenna lines also use 
upcycled plastic from bottles that have been 
chemically transformed into a stronger, 
higher-performance material.

Apple is pioneering industry-leading levels  
of traceability in recycled materials to build  
a gold supply chain of exclusively recycled 
content. For the first time, we’re using 
100 percent certified recycled gold in an 
Apple product—now in the plating of the  
main logic board and the wire in the front 
camera and the rear cameras. 

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 13 mini is free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame retardants, PVC, 
phthalates, arsenic in the display glass, and mercury.1 And 100 percent of the materials in 
iPhone 13 mini are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go beyond what’s 
required by aiming to understand the non-regulated substances in every part of every product—
an effort that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through the entire supply chain. 
We consistently identify the makeup of over 75 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

3

      iPhone 13 mini 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for  
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that  
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance  
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people  
are treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce suppliers’ environmental impact. Our 
requirements apply across our supply chain, and include the responsible sourcing of materials. 
From the strong foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition  
to renewable energy, to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting 
final assembly suppliers in reducing waste.

Zero Waste to Landfill 

All established iPhone 13 mini final 

assembly supplier sites do not 

generate any waste sent to landfill.7

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone 13 mini final assembly 

supplier sites are transitioning to 

100 percent renewable energy for 

Apple production. 

Greener chemicals 

All established iPhone 13 mini final  

assembly supplier sites use safer cleaners 

and degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes, as determined by methodologies 

like the GreenScreen® assessment.6

4

      iPhone 13 mini 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

We eliminated the need for the outer plastic wrap by redesigning  
the packaging with a seal that protects the product during transit. 
This brings us one step closer to our goal of completely removing 
plastic from all our packaging by 2025. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.8 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.9 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.

96% 

of the packaging10 
is fiber based, due to  
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

67% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood  
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests8

5

      iPhone 13 mini 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone 13 mini uses 56 percent less energy than the energy 
conservation standard.  

We design our products to be energy efficient, long lasting, and safe. iPhone 13 mini uses 
software and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. We 
also run our own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs, where our products go through 
rigorous testing before they leave our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s 
life cycle, with regular software updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized 
repair professionals to service them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy Federal 
Energy Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.11 iPhone 13 mini 
consumes 56 percent less energy than required by this standard.

U.S. Department of 
Energy standard

iPhone 13 mini   

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

iPhone 13 mini features Ceramic 
Shield as well as IP68 water and 
dust resistance that enhance the 
durability of the device.12 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based  
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6

      iPhone 13 mini 

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In and we’ll ensure it has  
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices and 
accessories to Apple. Eligible devices can be traded in for credit or an Apple Store Gift Card, 
while accessories and other devices can be recycled for free.13 We also offer and participate 
in product take-back and recycling collection programs for 99 percent