Date introduced

June 8, 2009

iPhone 3GS is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact:

•  Arsenic-free glass

•  Brominated flame retardant–free

•  Mercury-free LCD display

•  PVC-free

•  Majority of packaging made from 

post-consumer recycled fiberboard 
and bio-based materials

•  Power adapter outperforms strictest 
global energy efficiency standards

iPhone 3GS
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our business starts 
with our products. The careful environmental management of our products throughout 
their life cycles includes controlling the quantity and type of materials used in their 
manufacture, improving their energy efficiency, and designing them for better recyclability. 
The information below details the environmental performance of iPhone 3GS as it 
relates to climate change, energy efficiency, restricted substances, and material efficiency.

Climate Change

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and 
air temperature. Most of Apple’s corporate greenhouse gas emissions come from the 
production, transport, use, and recycling of its products. Apple seeks to minimize 
greenhouse gas emissions by setting stringent design-related goals for material and 
energy efficiency. The chart below provides the estimated greenhouse gas emissions 
for iPhone 3GS over its life cycle.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone 3GS

Recycling, 1%

Transport, 5%

Production, 45%

Customer use, 49%

Total greenhouse gas emissions: 55 kg CO2e

Energy Efficiency

iPhone 3GS uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages 
power consumption. In addition, the Apple USB power adapter outperforms the 
stringent requirements of the ENERGY STAR specification for external power supplies. 
The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB power adapter.

Energy Efficiency of Apple USB Power Adapter

Mode

Power adapter no-load

Power adapter efficiency

100V

0.22W

74%

115V

0.23W

75%

230V

0.25W

70%

1

Battery chemistry

System battery: lithium-ion polymer

Material Efficiency

Apple’s ultra-compact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material 
efficiency. Reducing the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping 
efficiency. It also helps reduce energy consumed during production and material waste 
generated at the end of the product’s life. The chart below details the materials used in 
iPhone 3GS.

Material Use for iPhone 3GS

Stainless steel, 33.5g

Other 3.5g

Display, 12.5g

Glass, 26g

Plastic, 15.5g

Battery, 24.5g

Circuit boards, 19.5g

Packaging

The packaging for iPhone 3GS is almost entirely recyclable, and its retail box is made 
primarily from bio-based materials, including fiberboard containing 90 percent post-
consumer recycled content. In addition, its packaging is extremely material efficient, 
allowing more units to be transported in a single shipping container. The following 
table details the materials used in iPhone 3GS packaging.

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone 3GS (U.S. Configurations)

iPhone 3GS U.S. retail packaging is 28 percent 
lighter and consumes 23 percent less volume 
than that of the previous-generation iPhone 3G. 

Material

Paper (fiberboard, paperboard, paper foam)

Thermoformed polystyrene

Other plastics

Restricted Substances

Retail box

136g

17g

3g

Apple has long taken the lead in restricting harmful substances from its products and 
packaging. As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European 
Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment, also known as the RoHS Directive. Examples of materials 
restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and PBB 
and PBDE brominated flame retardants (BFRs). iPhone 3GS goes even further than the 
requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the following more aggressive 
restrictions:

•  Arsenic-free glass

•  Mercury-free LCD display

•  Free of of BFRs and PVC

•  All iPhone 3GS external surfaces free of nickel plating

2

MacBook

Recycling

Through ultra-efficient design and use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has 
minimized material waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and 
participates in various product take-back and recycling programs in 95 percent of the 
regions where Apple products are sold. All products are processed in the country or 
region in which they are collected. For more information on how to take advantage of 
these programs, visit www.apple.com/environment/recycling/.

Deﬁnitions

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with 
guidelines and requirements as specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation 
includes emissions contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

•  Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials 

and the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts as well as product 
packaging.(cid:1)

•  Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its 

associated packaging from the manufacturing site to the continental distribution hub. 
Transport of products from distribution centers to the end customer is not included.

•  Use: End-user power consumption assumes a three-year period. Product use scenarios 

are modeled on data that reflects intensive daily use of the product.(cid:1)Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a continental level.(cid:1)

•  Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the 

energy used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts.

Energy efficiency: The energy efficiency values in this report are based on the ENERGY 
STAR Program Requirements for Single Voltage External AC-DC and AC-AC Power Supplies. 

• Power adapter no-load: Condition in which the power adapter is connected to AC 

power, but not connected to iPhone.

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the power adapter’s measured efficiency when 
tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power adapter’s 
rated output current.

© 2009 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

3

