iPhone 8 
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment 

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our 
business starts with our products. The careful environmental management 
of our products throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity 
and types of materials used in their manufacture, improving their energy 
efficiency, and designing them for better recyclability. The information below 
details the environmental performance of iPhone 8 as it relates to climate 
change, energy efficiency, material efficiency, and restricted substances.1 

Date introduced 
September 12, 2017

Climate Change 

Environmental
Status Report 

iPhone 8 is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free  

• Brominated flame retardant–free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

• Recyclable and low-carbon 

aluminum 

• 100 percent of packaging fibers 
are sourced from responsibly 
managed forests, bamboo, waste 
sugarcane, or recycled paper 

Achieves a Gold rating 
from EPEAT4

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and air 
temperatures. Most of Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions come from the production, transport, 

use, and recycling of our products. Apple seeks to minimize product-related greenhouse gas 
emissions by setting stringent design-related goals for material and energy efficiency, and by 

increasing use of renewable energy in our supply chain. For example, Apple utilizes aluminum that 
is smelted using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels, and has reengineered the manufacturing 

process to reincorporate scrap aluminum. As a result, every gram of aluminum used in iPhone 8 
generates 11 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than the aluminum used in iPhone 7, and 

83 percent less than the aluminum used in iPhone 6.  

In addition, Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy program has enabled direct iPhone suppliers to 

develop their own renewable energy projects to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These 
projects resulted in a 6 percent decrease in the greenhouse gas emissions from iPhone production, 

compared to what they would have been without renewable energy.2 The chart below provides the 
estimated greenhouse gas emissions for iPhone 8 over its life cycle.3 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone 8—64GB model 

57  
kg CO2e 

Total greenhouse 
gas emissions

  80%  ⦁  Production 
  16%  ⦁  Customer use 
  3%  ⦁  Transport 
1%  ⦁  Recycling

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 8  |  September 2017 

 1

 
 
 
Energy Efficiency 

iPhone 8 uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages power 

consumption. The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter. 

Battery design 

iPhone 8 features a lithium-ion polymer 
battery chemistry that is free of lead, 
cadmium, and mercury. This allows for 
an extended lifespan, and is designed 
to deliver up to 500 full charge and 
discharge cycles before it reaches
80 percent of its original capacity. 

Energy Efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter 

Mode

100V

Power adapter, no-load

0.014W

Power adapter efficiency

74.3%

115V

0.014W

74.3%

230V

0.012W

73.1%

Material Efficiency 
Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material efficiency. 
Reducing the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping efficiency. It also helps reduce 

energy consumed during production and material waste generated at the end of the product’s life. 
iPhone 8 is made of aluminum and other materials highly desired by recyclers. In addition, plastics 

used in the internal antenna and receiver are made with 35 percent post-consumer recycled 
content, which reduces dependence on finite resources. The chart below details the materials 

used in iPhone 8.5 

Material Use for iPhone 8 

Material  
Use

  35g  ⦁  Glass 
  26g  ⦁  Battery 
  26g  ⦁  Stainless steel 
  25g  ⦁  Display 
  14g  ⦁  Circuit boards 
  11g  ⦁  Aluminum 
  6g  ⦁  Other 
  5g  ⦁  Plastics 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 8  |  September 2017 

 2

 
Packaging 

The packaging for iPhone 8 is highly recyclable, and 100 percent of the fiber in its retail box is either 

from recycled content, bamboo, waste sugarcane, or responsibly managed forests. Through the 
reduction of plastics in the packaging, the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the packaging 

of iPhone 8 are 57 percent less than those of iPhone 6s. The following table details the materials 
used in iPhone 8 packaging.1 

U.S. retail packaging of iPhone 8 
contains 79 percent less plastic than 
iPhone 6s packaging and contains 
59 percent recycled content.

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone 8 

Material

Fiber (fiberboard, paperboard, non-wood fiber)

Plastic film

Retail box

163g

7g

Restricted Substances 

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from our products and 

packaging. As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European Directive on 
the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, 

also known as the RoHS Directive. Examples of materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, 
cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and the brominated flame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. 

iPhone 8 goes even further than the requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the 
following more aggressive restrictions: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display 

• BFR-free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

Recycling 

Through ultra-efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has minimized material 
waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and participates in various product take-

back and recycling programs in 99 percent of the countries where Apple products are sold, including 
at all Apple Stores. All products are processed in the country or region in which they are collected. For 

more information on how to recycle your products at end of life, visit www.apple.com/recycling. 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 8  |  September 2017 

 3

Definitions 

Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT): A program that ranks mobile 

phones based on environmental attributes in accordance with UL 110. For more information, visit 
www.epeat.net. 

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines 
and requirements as specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation includes emissions for 

the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as well 

as the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.  

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its associated 

packaging from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. Transport of products from 
distribution hubs to end customer is modeled using average distances based on regional 
geography. 

• Customer use: Apple conservatively assumes a three-year period for power use by first owners. 
Product use scenarios are based on historical customer use data for similar products. Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a regional level. 

• Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the energy 

used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions. 

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to 

USB Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to 

USB Cable (1m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 
25 percent of the power adapter’s rated output current. 

Restricted substances: Apple defines a material as BFR-free and PVC-free if it contains less than 
900 parts per million (ppm) of bromine and of chlorine. Apple defines a material as beryllium-free if 

it contains less than 1000 parts per million (ppm) of beryllium. A complete list of Apple’s restrictions 
on hazardous substances is available at www.apple.com/environment/reports.

1. Product evaluations based on U.S. configurations of iPhone 8 64GB.  

2.Greenhouse gas emissions reductions associated with the Supplier Clean Energy program were calculated relative to 

default grid emissions in the supplier’s country or region, based on best available data. 

3.Greenhouse gas emissions vary according to the configuration of iPhone 8. The following table details the estimated 

greenhouse gas emissions for U.S. configurations of iPhone 8 over its life cycle. 

Configuration

iPhone 8 64GB

iPhone 8 256GB

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

57 kg CO2e

71 kg CO2e

4.iPhone 8 achieved a Gold rating from EPEAT in the United States and Canada. 

5.Excludes Apple Lightning to USB Cable and Apple USB Power Adapter. Mass will vary by configuration. 

© 2017 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 8  |  September 2017 

 4

