Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus  

Date introduced 

September 7, 2022

Progress toward
our 2030 goal 

Over 25% of iPhone 14 manufacturing 
electricity sourced from supplier clean 
energy projects1

Smarter chemistry3 

• Arsenic-free glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Longevity 

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus feature 
Ceramic Shield as well as IP68 water and 
dust resistance that enhance durability.4

Responsible
packaging 

100% recycled or responsibly sourced 
wood fiber 

94% fiber-based, due to our work to 
eliminate plastic in packaging2

Recovery 

Return your device through
Apple Trade In, and we’ll give it
a new life or recycle it for free.

Responsible manufacturing 

Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets 
strict standards for the protection of people 
in our supply chain and the planet.

100% recycled gold in the wire of all cameras
and in the plating of multiple printed circuit boards 

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus. 

Product carbon footprint calculations include in-box accessories as well as packaging.

5

Our product carbon 
neutrality strategy  

Our goal is for Apple and all the products we make to be carbon neutral by 2030, reducing our 
total carbon emissions to no more than 9.6 million metric tons—at least a 75 percent reduction 
against our 2015 baseline. The only way to reach this ambitious goal is to substantially 
decarbonize our products.  

Our plan to decarbonize products is rigorous and focuses on transitioning to clean electricity, 
designing with recycled and low-carbon materials, and prioritizing lower-carbon ways of 
shipping products, like with ocean freight. Only after we’ve substantially reduced emissions will 
we apply credits from high-quality carbon removal projects to achieve carbon neutrality. 

How we’re reducing emissions 

Transition to 100 percent clean electricity for manufacturing: To eliminate emissions from 
the electricity used to make products, we’re prioritizing manufacturing energy efficiency and 
helping to transition our entire supply chain to 100 percent clean electricity.6  

Transition to 100 percent clean electricity for product use: To gradually negate emissions 
from the electricity our customers use to charge their Apple products, we’re prioritizing 
product energy efficiency and investing in clean energy projects around the world. 

Prioritize non-air transportation: To reduce emissions from transporting products, we’re 
prioritizing the use of lower-carbon shipping modes than air, like ocean or rail. 

Use recycled and low-carbon materials: To address emissions generated by using primary 
materials, we’re increasing the recycled content of our products, maximizing material and 
manufacturing efficiencies, and improving yields. And where we’ve not yet fully transitioned 
to recycled content, we’re prioritizing low-carbon materials, such as aluminum smelted with 
hydroelectricity. 

How we’ll get to net zero emissions 

For emissions that remain after reductions, we and our suppliers are supporting nature-based 
carbon solutions that result in high-quality carbon credits. These play an important role in 
addressing our climate crisis, as nature-based solutions contribute to the health of ecosystems 
in addition to removing carbon from the atmosphere. We are aligned with the scientific consensus 
that these solutions should only be deployed alongside aggressive emissions reductions.  

How we’re monitoring progress 

We first calculate the final carbon footprint of the product using a life cycle carbon analysis 
approach, in accordance with international standards. To help ensure our work is translating to 
real reductions, we consider what emissions would have been without our actions. We apply 
the following assumptions to create this baseline scenario: 

No use of clean electricity for manufacturing or product use, beyond what is already available 
on the grid (based on regional emissions factors). 

Apple’s carbon intensity of key materials as of 2015. Carbon intensity of materials reflects 
use of recycled content and production technology.  

Apple’s average mix of transportation modes (air, rail, ocean, trucking) by product line across 
three years (fiscal years 2017 to 2019) to best capture the baseline transportation emissions 
of our products. 

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus  |  Product Environmental Report

2

Progress toward carbon neutral 

We’ve reduced emissions for iPhone 14 by 23 percent against our baseline. iPhone 14 contains 
recycled content, including an enclosure that contains both recycled aluminum as well as 
aluminum smelted primarily with low-carbon sources of electricity, like hydroelectricity. Overall, 
use of recycled and low-carbon materials reduced iPhone 14 emissions by 8 percent. We’re also 
working with our suppliers to transition to 100 percent clean electricity for Apple production. 
The clean electricity solutions that suppliers have already implemented to date have reduced 
iPhone 14 emissions by 15 percent.

79 kg 
Baseline emissions7

-18 kg 
Emissions reductions

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Recycled and low 
carbon materials8

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Clean
electricity10

60 kg 
iPhone 14
emissions9

Materials  
and process 
emissions

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity for 
manufacturing

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Electricity 
for charging

Transportation

Transportation

Transportation

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus  |  Product Environmental Report

3

Taking responsibility for 
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials.

We sell millions of products. So making even small 
adjustments can have a meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials
Maximize recycled content 
in products and responsibly 
source primary materials

Recover
Reuse products through 
Apple Trade In and maximize 
material recovery at end of life

Make
Make products responsibly, 
upholding high standards of labor 
and human rights and minimizing 
our environmental impact

Use
 Minimize emissions from 
product use, enhance product 
longevity, and seek to avoid 
exposure to harmful chemicals

Package  
and Ship
Eliminate plastic from our 
packaging and minimize 
emissions from transportation

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus  |  Product Environmental Report

4

Source Materials 

The wires of all cameras are made with 100 percent recycled gold. 

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. Apple 
also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium smelters 
and refiners to participate in third-party audits.11 We’re proud to be recognized as a worldwide 
leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs also consider 
the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use of hundreds 
of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect people and 
the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Tungsten 

Tin 

We use 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in all magnets, representing 
100 percent of the total rare earth elements 
in iPhone 14 and 99 percent in iPhone 14 Plus.

We use 100 percent recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 100 percent of 
the total tungsten in the device.12

We use 100 percent recycled tin in the solder 
of multiple printed circuit boards, including the 
main logic board.

Aluminum 

Plastic 

Gold 

iPhone 14 contains recycled content, 
including an enclosure that contains recycled 
aluminum, as well as aluminum smelted 
primarily with low-carbon sources 
of electricity, like hydroelectricity.

We’re transitioning from fossil fuel–based 
plastics to those made from renewable or 
recycled sources. For iPhone 14 and 
iPhone 14 Plus, we use 35 percent or 
more recycled plastic in 15 components. The 
antenna lines also use upcycled plastic from 
bottles that have been chemically transformed 
into a stronger, higher-performance material.

Apple is pioneering industry-leading levels 
of traceability in recycled materials to build 
a gold supply chain of exclusively recycled 
content. We’re now using 100 percent 
recycled gold in the wire of all cameras and 
the plating of multiple printed circuit boards. 

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus are free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame 
retardants, PVC, phthalates, arsenic in the glass, and mercury.3 And 100 percent of the materials 
in iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go 
beyond what’s required by aiming to understand the non-regulated substances in every part of 
every product—an effort that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through the entire 
supply chain. We consistently identify the makeup of over 75 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus  |  Product Environmental Report

5

Make 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for 
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that 
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performanc