iPhone XR 
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment 

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our 
business starts with our products. The careful environmental management 
of our products throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity 
and types of materials used in their manufacture, improving their energy 
efficiency, and designing them for better recyclability. The information below 
details the environmental performance of iPhone XR as it relates to climate 
change, energy efficiency, material efficiency, and restricted substances.1 

Climate Change 

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and air 

temperatures. Most of Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions come from the production, transport, 
use, and recycling of our products. Apple seeks to minimize product-related greenhouse gas 
emissions by setting stringent design-related goals for material and energy efficiency, and by 

increasing use of renewable energy in our supply chain. For example, Apple utilizes aluminum 
that is smelted using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels, which reduces the greenhouse gas 
emissions by 68 percent. Apple has also reengineered the manufacturing process to reincorporate 
scrap aluminum, further reducing its carbon impact. 

In addition, Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy program has enabled direct iPhone suppliers to develop 
their own renewable energy projects to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These projects 
resulted in nearly a 5 percent decrease in the greenhouse gas emissions from iPhone production, 

compared to what they would have been without renewable energy.2 The chart below provides the 
estimated greenhouse gas emissions for iPhone XR over its life cycle.3 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone XR—64GB model 

62  
kg CO2e 

Total greenhouse 
gas emissions

  76%  ⦁  Production 
  19%  ⦁  Customer use 
  4%  ⦁  Transport 
1%  ⦁  Recycling

Environmental Report  |  iPhone XR  |  September 2018 

(cid:3)1

Date introduced 
September 12, 2018

Environmental
Status Report 

iPhone XR is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free  

• Brominated flame retardant–free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

• Recyclable and low-carbon 

aluminum enclosure 

• 100 percent of packaging fibers 
are sourced from responsibly 
managed forests, bamboo, waste 
sugarcane, or recycled paper 

• Main logic board assembled with 
100 percent recycled tin solder 

• Cover glass frame made with 
32 percent bio-based plastic 

• Speaker enclosure made with 
35 percent post-consumer 
recycled plastic 

Achieves a Gold rating 
from EPEAT4

 
 
 
 
 
Energy Efficiency 

iPhone XR uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages power 

consumption. The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter. 

Battery design 

iPhone XR features a lithium-ion polymer 
battery chemistry that is free of lead, 
cadmium, and mercury. This allows for 
an extended lifespan, and is designed 
to deliver up to 500 full charge and 
discharge cycles before it reaches
80 percent of its original capacity. 

Power Consumption for Apple USB Power Adapter 

Mode

100V

Power adapter, no-load

0.014W

Power adapter efficiency

74.3%

115V

0.014W

74.3%

230V

0.012W

73.1%

Material Efficiency 
Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material efficiency. 
Reducing the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping efficiency. It also helps reduce 

energy consumed during production and material waste generated at the end of the product’s life. 
iPhone XR is made of aluminum and other materials highly desired by recyclers. To help achieve 

Apple’s goal of using only recycled or renewable materials, iPhone XR utilizes materials that reduce 
dependence on finite resources: the main logic board is assembled with 100 percent recycled tin 

solder, the cover glass frame is made with 32 percent bio-based plastic, and the speaker enclosure 
is made with 35 percent post-consumer recycled content. The chart below details the materials 

used in iPhone XR.5 

Material Use for iPhone XR 

Material  
Use

  43g  ⦁  Battery 
  39g  ⦁  Glass 
  39g  ⦁  Stainless Steel 
  19g  ⦁  Display 
  17g  ⦁  Aluminum 
  16g  ⦁  Other 
  12g  ⦁  Circuit boards 
  9g  ⦁  Plastics 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone XR  |  September 2018 

(cid:3)2

 
Packaging 

The packaging for iPhone XR is highly recyclable, and 100 percent of the fiber in its retail box is from 

recycled content, bamboo, waste sugarcane, or responsibly managed forests. Through design and 
material selection, nearly all of the plastics in the packaging have been eliminated. The following 

table details the materials used in iPhone XR packaging.1 

U.S. retail packaging of iPhone XR 
contains 54 percent recycled content.

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone XR 

Material

Fiber (fiberboard, paperboard, non-wood fiber)

Plastic film

Retail box

187g

7g

Restricted Substances 

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from our products and 
packaging. As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European Directive on 

the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, 
also known as the RoHS Directive. Examples of materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and the brominated flame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. 
iPhone XR goes even further than the requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the 

following more aggressive restrictions: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display 

• BFR-free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

Recycling 

Through efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has minimized material 

waste at the product’s end of life. Through Apple GiveBack, customers can trade in eligible devices 
for an Apple Store Gift Card. If it’s not eligible for credit, we’ll recycle it for free. In addition, Apple 

offers and participates in various product take-back and recycling programs in 99 percent of the 
countries where Apple sells products, including at every Apple Store. For more information on how 

to recycle your products at end of life, visit www.apple.com/giveback. 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone XR  |  September 2018 

(cid:3)3

Definitions 

Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT): A program that ranks mobile 

phones based on environmental attributes in accordance with UL 110. For more information, visit 
www.epeat.net. 

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines 
and requirements as specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation includes emissions for 

the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as well 

as the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.  

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its associated 

packaging from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. Transport of products from 

distribution hubs to end customer is modeled using average distances based on regional 
geography. 

• Customer use: Apple conservatively assumes a three-year period for power use by first owners. 
Product use scenarios are based on historical customer use data for similar products. Geographic 

differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a regional level. 

• Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the energy 

used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions. 

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to 

USB Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to 

USB Cable (1m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 

25 percent of the power adapter’s rated output current. 

Restricted substances: Apple defines a material as BFR-free and PVC-free if it contains less than 

900 parts per million (ppm) of bromine and of chlorine. Apple defines a material as beryllium-free if 
it contains less than 1000 parts per million (ppm) of beryllium. Apple defines a material as RoHS 

compliant if it conforms to European Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including 
exemptions for the use of lead. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances 

where technically possible. A complete list of Apple’s restrictions on hazardous substances is 
included in Apple’s Regulated Substances Specification at www.apple.com/environment/reports.

1. Product evaluations based on U.S. configurations of iPhone XR 64GB.  

2.Enclosure greenhouse gas emission reduction compared to average primary aluminum ingot. Greenhouse gas emissions 

reductions associated with the Supplier Clean Energy program were calculated relative to default grid emissions in the 

supplier’s country or region, based on best available data.  

3.Greenhouse gas emissions vary according to the configuration of iPhone XR. The following table details the estimated 

greenhouse gas emissions for U.S. configurations of iPhone XR over its life cycle. 

Configuration

iPhone XR 64GB
iPhone XR 128 GB

iPhone XR 256GB

Greenhouse Gas Emissions
62 kg CO2e
67 kg CO2e

76 kg CO2e

4.iPhone XR achieved a Gold rating from EPEAT in the United States and Canada. 

5.Excludes Apple Lightning to USB Cable and Apple USB Power Adapter. M