Date introduced

June 24, 2010

iPhone 4 is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact:

•  Arsenic-free display glass

•  Brominated flame retardant–free

•  Mercury-free LED backlit display

•  PVC-free

•  Majority of packaging made from 

post-consumer recycled fiberboard 
and bio-based materials

•  Power adapter outperforms strictest 

ENERGY STAR® specifications

iPhone 4
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our business 
starts with our products. The careful environmental management of our products 
throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity and type of materials 
used in their manufacture, improving their energy efficiency, and designing them 
for better recyclability. The information below details the life cycle environmental 
performance of iPhone 4 as it relates to climate change, energy efficiency, restricted 
substances, and material efficiency.

Climate Change

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, 
and air temperatures. Most of Apple’s corporate greenhouse gas emissions come from 
the production, transport, use, and recycling of its products. Apple seeks to minimize 
greenhouse gas emissions by setting stringent design-related goals for material and 
energy efficiency. The chart below provides the estimated greenhouse gas emissions 
for iPhone 4 over its life cycle.

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone 4

Recycling, 1%

Transport, 8%

Production, 57%

Customer use, 34%

Total greenhouse gas emissions: 45 kg CO2e

Energy Efficiency

iPhone 4 uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manage 
power consumption. In addition, the Apple USB power adapter outperforms the 
stringent requirements of the ENERGY STAR specification for external power supplies. 
The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter.

Energy Efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter

Mode

Power adapter no-load

Power adapter efficiency

100V

0.22 W

74%

115V

0.23 W

75%

230V

0.25 W

70%

1

Material 

Battery chemistry

System battery: lithium-ion polymer

Free of lead, cadmium, and mercury

Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material 
efficiency. Reducing the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping 
efficiency. It also helps reduce the energy consumed during production and material 
waste generated at end of life. The chart below details the materials used in iPhone 4.

iPhone 4 U.S. retail packaging is 14 percent 
lighter and consumes 14 percent less volume 
than the previous-generation iPhone 3GS. 

Material Use for iPhone 4

Glass, 40.9g

Plastic, 3.1g

Other, 5g

Display, 7.2g

Circuit boards, 15.4g

Battery, 24.7g

Packaging

Stainless steel, 38.7g

The packaging for iPhone 4 is almost entirely recyclable, and its retail box is made 
primarily from bio-based materials, including fiberboard containing 90 percent post-
consumer recycled content. In addition, the iPhone 4 packaging is extremely material 
efficient, allowing more units to be transported in a single shipping container. The 
following table details the materials used in iPhone 4 packaging.

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone 4 (U.S. Configurations)

Material

Paper (fiberboard, paperboard, paperfoam)

Thermoformed polystyrene

Other plastics

Retail box

120g

11g

2g

Restricted Substances

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from its 
products and packaging. As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the 
strict European Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances 
in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, also known as the RoHS directive. Examples of 
materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and 
the brominated flame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. iPhone 4 goes even further than 
the RoHS Directive by incorporating the following more aggressive restrictions:

•  Arsenic-free display glass

•  Mercury-free LED backlit display

•  BFR- and PVC-free

•  External surfaces are free of nickel plating

2

MacBook

Recycling

Through ultra-efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has 
minimized material waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and 
participates in various product take-back and recycling programs in 95 percent of 
the regions where Apple products are sold. All products are processed in the country 
or region in which they are collected. For more information on how to take advantage 
of these programs, visit www.apple.com/recycling/.

Deﬁnitions

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with 
guidelines and requirements as specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation 
includes emissions from the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming 
Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 equivalency factors (CO2e):

•  Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials as 
well as the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.

•  Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its 

associated packaging from manufacturing site to continental distribution hubs. 
Transport of products from distribution hubs to end customer is not included.

•  Use: User power consumption assumes a three-year period. Product use scenarios 
are modeled on data that reflects intensive daily use of the product. Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a continental level.

•  Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers and the 

energy used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts.

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values in this report are based on the 
ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Single Voltage External AC-DC and AC-AC Power 
Supplies Version 2.0. For more information, visit www.energystar.gov.

• Power adapter no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter is 

connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone.

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple USB Power Adapter measured 

efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the 
power adapter’s rated output current.

© 2010 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

3

