iPhone SE 
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment 

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our 
business starts with our products. The careful environmental management 
of our products throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity 
and types of materials used in their manufacture, improving their energy 
efficiency, and designing them for better recyclability. The information below 
details the environmental performance of iPhone SE as it relates to climate 
change, energy efficiency, material efficiency, and restricted substances.1 

Climate Change 

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and air 
temperatures. Most of Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions come from the production, transport, use, 

and recycling of our products. Apple seeks to minimize product-related greenhouse gas emissions 
by setting stringent design-related goals for material and energy efficiency, and by increasing use 

of renewable energy in our supply chain. For example, Apple prioritized aluminum that is smelted 
using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels, and has reengineered the manufacturing process to 

reincorporate scrap aluminum. As a result, the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 
aluminum enclosure of iPhone SE are 40 percent less than those of iPhone 5s, thanks to the use of 

less virgin aluminum and more low-carbon aluminum manufacturing. The chart below provides the 
estimated greenhouse gas emissions for iPhone SE over its life cycle.2 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone SE—32GB model 

45  
kg CO2e 

Total greenhouse 
gas emissions

  83%  ⦁  Production 
  12%  ⦁  Customer use 
  4%  ⦁  Transport 
1%  ⦁  Recycling

Environmental Report  |  iPhone SE  |  September 2017 

 1

Date introduced 
March 21, 2016

Environmental
Status Report 

iPhone SE is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display  

• Brominated flame retardant–free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

• Recyclable aluminum enclosure 

• 100 percent of packaging fibers 
are sourced from responsibly 
managed forests or recycled paper 

Achieves a Gold rating 
from EPEAT3

 
 
 
Energy Efficiency 

iPhone SE uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages power 

consumption. The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter. 

Battery design 

iPhone SE features a lithium-ion polymer 
battery chemistry that is free of lead, 
cadmium, and mercury. This allows for an 
extended lifespan, and is designed 
to deliver up to 500 full charge and 
discharge cycles before it reaches
80 percent of its original capacity.

Energy Efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter 

Mode

100V

Power adapter, no-load

0.014W

Power adapter efficiency

74.3%

115V

0.014W

74.3%

230V

0.012W

73.1%

Material Efficiency 
Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material efficiency. 
Reducing the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping efficiency. It also helps reduce 

energy consumed during production and material waste generated at the end of the product’s life. 
iPhone SE is made of aluminum and other materials highly desired by recyclers. The chart below 

details the materials used in iPhone SE.3 

Material Use for iPhone SE 

Material  
Use

  25g  ⦁  Battery 
  21g  ⦁  Aluminum 
  18g  ⦁  Stainless steel 
  18g  ⦁  Glass 
  13g  ⦁  Circuit boards 
  11g  ⦁  Display 
  5g  ⦁  Plastics 
2g  ⦁  Other 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone SE  |  September 2017 

 2

 
 
Packaging 

The packaging for iPhone SE is recyclable, and 100 percent of the fiber in its retail box is either from 

recycled content or sourced from responsibly managed forests. In addition, the iPhone SE packaging 
is extremely material efficient, allowing 80 percent more units to be transported in an airline 

shipping container compared to the first-generation iPhone. The following table details the materials 
used in iPhone SE packaging.1 

U.S. retail packaging of iPhone SE 
is 26 percent lighter and consumes 
41 percent less volume than the first-
generation iPhone packaging. 

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone SE 

Material

Fiber (fiberboard, paperboard)

High-impact polystyrene

Other plastics

Retail box

116g

24g

4g

Restricted Substances 

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from our products and 

packaging. As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European Directive on 
the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, 

also known as the RoHS Directive. Examples of materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, 
cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and the brominated flame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. 

iPhone SE goes even further than the requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the 
following more aggressive restrictions: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display 

• BFR-free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

Recycling 

Through ultra-efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has minimized material 
waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and participates in various product take-

back and recycling programs in 99 percent of the countries where Apple products are sold, including 
at all Apple Stores. All products are processed in the country or region in which they are collected. For 

more information on how to recycle your products at end of life, visit www.apple.com/recycling. 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone SE  |  September 2017 

 3

Definitions 

Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT): A program that ranks mobile 

phones based on environmental attributes in accordance with UL 110. For more information, visit 
www.epeat.net. 

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines 
and requirements as specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation includes emissions for 

the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as well 

as the manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.  

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its associated 

packaging from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. Transport of products from 
distribution hubs to end customer is modeled using average distances based on regional 
geography. 

• Customer use: Apple conservatively assumes a three-year period for power use by first owners. 
Product use scenarios are based on historical customer use data for similar products. Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a regional level. 

• Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the energy 

used in mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions. 

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning 

to USB Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to 

USB Cable (1m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 
25 percent of the power adapter’s rated output current. 

Restricted substances: Apple defines a material as BFR-free and PVC-free if it contains less than 
900 parts per million (ppm) of bromine and of chlorine. Apple defines a material as beryllium-free if 

it contains less than 1000 parts per million (ppm) of beryllium. A complete list of Apple’s restrictions 
on hazardous substances is available at www.apple.com/environment/reports.

1. Product evaluations based on U.S. configurations of iPhone SE 32GB.  

2.Greenhouse gas emissions vary according to the configuration of iPhone SE. The following table details the estimated 

greenhouse gas emissions for U.S. configurations of iPhone SE over its life cycle. 

Configuration

iPhone SE 32GB

iPhone SE 128GB

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

45 kg CO2e

53 kg CO2e

3.iPhone SE achieved a Gold rating from EPEAT in the United States and Canada. 

4.Excludes Apple Lightning to USB Cable and Apple USB Power Adapter. Mass will vary by configuration. 

© 2017 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

Environmental Report  |  iPhone SE  |  September 2017 

 4

