iPhone 5s
Environmental Report

Apple and the Environment

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our business 
starts with our products. The careful environmental management of our products 
throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity and types of materials 
used in their manufacture, improving their energy efficiency, and designing them 
for better recyclability. The information below details the environmental performance 
of iPhone 5s as it relates to climate change, energy efficiency, material efficiency, 
and restricted substances.*

Climate Change

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and air temperatures. 
Most of Apple’s corporate greenhouse gas emissions come from the production, transport, use, and 
recycling of its products. Apple seeks to minimize greenhouse gas emissions by setting stringent design-
related goals for material and energy efficiency. The chart below provides the estimated greenhouse gas 
emissions for iPhone 5s over its life cycle. 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone 5s

65 

kg CO2e 

Total greenhouse 
gas emissions

  1%  ●  Recycling 

  5%  ●  Transport 

  14%  ●  Customer use 

  80%  ●  Production

Date introduced
September 10, 2013

Environmental
Status Report

iPhone 5s is designed with the 
following features to reduce 
environmental impact: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display  

• Brominated ﬂame retardant–free 

• PVC-free 

• Recyclable aluminum enclosure 

• Power adapter that outperforms 
strictest global energy eﬃciency 
standards

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 5s  |  September 2013 

                                                                                                       1

 
    
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
Battery chemistry 

•  Lithium-ion polymer 

•  Free of lead, cadmium, and mercury 

Energy Eﬃciency

iPhone 5s uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages power consumption. 
In addition, the Apple USB Power Adapter outperforms the stringent requirements of the ENERGY STAR® 
specification for external power supplies. The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple 
USB Power Adapter. 

Energy Eﬃciency of the Apple USB Power Adapter

Mode

100V

Power adapter no-load

0.011W

Power adapter eﬃciency

75.0%

115V

0.011W

75.0%

230V

0.011W

74.0%

Material Eﬃciency

Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material efficiency. Reducing 
the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping efficiency. It also helps reduce energy 
consumed during production and material waste generated at the end of the product’s life. iPhone 5s is 
made of aluminum and other materials highly desired by recyclers. The chart below details the materials 
used in iPhone 5s. 

Material Use for iPhone 5s

Material 
Use

  25g  ●  Battery 

  21g  ●  Aluminum 

  18g  ●  Stainless steel 

  18g  ●  Glass 

  12g  ●  Circuit boards 

  11g  ●  Display 

5g  ●  Plastic 

2g  ●  Other 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 5s  |  September 2013 

                                                                                                       2

 
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
 
     
   
  
 
     
   
  
U.S. retail packaging of iPhone 5s 
is 26 percent lighter and consumes 
41 percent less volume than the 
first-generation iPhone packaging.

Packaging

The packaging for iPhone 5s is highly recyclable, and its retail box is made primarily from bio-based 
materials, including fiberboard containing 90 percent post-consumer recycled content. In addition, the 
iPhone 5s packaging is extremely material efficient, allowing 80 percent more units to be transported in 
an airline shipping container compared to the first-generation iPhone. The following table details the 
materials used in iPhone 5s packaging. 

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone 5s (U.S. Conﬁgurations)

Material

Retail box

Paper (ﬁberboard, paperboard)

High-impact polystyrene

Other plastics

116g

24g

4g

Restricted Substances

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from its products and packaging. 
As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European Directive on the Restriction 
of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, also known as the 
RoHS Directive. Examples of materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent 
chromium, and the brominated ﬂame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. iPhone 5s goes even further 
than the requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the following more aggressive restrictions: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display 

• BFR-free 

• PVC-free 

Recycling

Through ultra-efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has minimized material 
waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and participates in various product take-back 
and recycling programs in 95 percent of the regions where Apple products are sold. All products are 
processed in the country or region in which they are collected. For more information on how to take 
advantage of these programs, visit www.apple.com/recycling. 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 5s  |  September 2013 

                                                                                                       3

 
Deﬁnitions

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines 
and requirements as speciﬁed by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation includes emissions for 
the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as well as the 

manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.  

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its associated packaging 

from manufacturing site to continental distribution hubs. Transport of products from distribution hubs 
to end customer is not included. 

• Customer Use: User power consumption assumes a three-year period. Product use scenarios are 

modeled on data that reflects intensive daily use of the product. Geographic differences in the power 
grid mix have been accounted for at a continental level. 

• Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the energy used in 

mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

Energy eﬃciency terms: The energy efficiency values for the Apple USB Power Adapter are based on 
the ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Single Voltage External AC-DC and AC-AC Power Supplies. 
For more information, visit www.energystar.gov. 

• Power adapter no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter is connected to AC power, 

but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter eﬃciency: Average of the power adapter’s measured efficiency when tested at 
100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power adapter’s rated output current. 

Restricted substances: Apple defines a material as BFR-free and PVC-free if it contains less than 900 parts 
per million (ppm) of bromine and of chlorine. 

(cid:1)Product evaluation based on U.S. configurations of iPhone 5s 32GB. 

© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 5s  |  September 2013 

                                                                                                       4

 
