Date introduced 
September 9, 2015

Environmental 
Status Report

iPhone 6s Plus is designed with  
the following features to reduce  
environmental impact: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display  

• Brominated flame retardant–free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

• Speaker enclosures made with  
30 percent post-consumer 
recycled plastic

iPhone 6s Plus
Environmental Report 

Apple and the Environment

Apple believes that improving the environmental performance of our business 
starts with our products. The careful environmental management of our products 
throughout their life cycles includes controlling the quantity and types of materials 
used in their manufacture, improving their energy efficiency, and designing them 
for better recyclability. The information below details the environmental performance 
of iPhone 6s Plus as it relates to climate change, energy efficiency, material efficiency, 
and restricted substances.1

Climate Change 

Greenhouse gas emissions have an impact on the planet’s balance of land, ocean, and air temperatures. 
Most of Apple’s corporate greenhouse gas emissions come from the production, transport, use, and 
recycling of its products. Apple seeks to minimize greenhouse gas emissions by setting stringent design-
related goals for material and energy efficiency. The greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 
aluminum enclosure of iPhone 6s Plus are half those of iPhone 6 Plus, thanks to the use of less virgin 
aluminum and more low-carbon aluminum manufacturing. The chart below provides the estimated 
greenhouse gas emissions for iPhone 6s Plus over its life cycle.2 

Greenhouse Gas Emissions for iPhone 6s Plus—32GB model

63 

kg CO2e 

Total greenhouse  
gas emissions

  78%  l  Production 

  18%  l  Customer use 

  3%  l  Transport 

  1%  l  Recycling

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 6s Plus  |  September 2016 

 1

 
 
Energy Efficiency 

iPhone 6s Plus uses power-efficient components and software that intelligently manages power 
consumption. The following table details the energy efficiency of the Apple USB Power Adapter. 

Battery chemistry 

•  Lithium-ion polymer 

Energy Eﬃciency of the Apple USB Power Adapter

•  Free of lead, cadmium, and mercury 

Mode

100V

Power adapter no-load

0.014W

Power adapter efficiency

74.3%

Material Efficiency 

115V

0.014W

74.3%

230V

0.012W

73.1%

Apple’s ultracompact product and packaging designs lead the industry in material efficiency. Reducing 
the material footprint of a product helps maximize shipping efficiency. It also helps reduce energy 
consumed during production and material waste generated at the end of the product’s life.  
iPhone 6s Plus is made of aluminum and other materials highly desired by recyclers. The chart  
below details the materials used in iPhone 6s Plus.3 

Material Use for iPhone 6s Plus

Material 
Use

  43g  l  Battery 

  40g  l  Display 

  35g  l  Aluminum 

  28g  l  Stainless steel 

  23g  l  Glass 

  12g  l  Circuit boards 

7g  l  Plastic 

4g  l  Other 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 6s Plus  |  September 2016 

 2

 
 
 
U.S. retail packaging of iPhone 6s Plus 
is 3 percent lighter and consumes  
13 percent less volume than the first-
generation iPhone packaging.

Packaging 

The packaging for iPhone 6s Plus is highly recyclable, and its retail box is made primarily from bio-based 
materials, including fiberboard containing 90 percent post-consumer recycled content. In addition,  
the iPhone 6s Plus packaging is material efficient. The following table details the materials used in  
iPhone 6s Plus packaging.1 

Packaging Breakdown for iPhone 6s Plus

Material

Retail box

Paper (ﬁberboard, paperboard)

High-impact polystyrene

Other plastics

147g

40g

6g

Restricted Substances 

Apple has long taken a leadership role in restricting harmful substances from its products and packaging. 
As part of this strategy, all Apple products comply with the strict European Directive on the Restriction of 
the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, also known as the RoHS 
Directive. Examples of materials restricted by RoHS include lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, 
and the brominated ﬂame retardants (BFRs) PBB and PBDE. iPhone 6s Plus goes even further than the 
requirements of the RoHS Directive by incorporating the following more aggressive restrictions: 

• Arsenic-free display glass 

• Mercury-free LED-backlit display 

• BFR-free 

• PVC-free 

• Beryllium-free 

Recycling 

Through ultra-efficient design and the use of highly recyclable materials, Apple has minimized material 
waste at the product’s end of life. In addition, Apple offers and participates in various product take-back 
and recycling programs in 99 percent of the countries where Apple products are sold. All products are 
processed in the country or region in which they are collected. For more information on how to take 
advantage of these programs, visit www.apple.com/recycling. 

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 6s Plus  |  September 2016 

 3

 
Deﬁnitions

Greenhouse gas emissions: Estimated emissions are calculated in accordance with guidelines  
and requirements as speciﬁed by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Calculation includes emissions for  
the following life-cycle phases contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 100 years) in CO2 
equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, and transportation of raw materials, as well as the 

manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts and product packaging.  

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of the finished product and its associated packaging 
from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. Transport of products from distribution hubs  
to end customer is modeled using average distances based on regional geography. 

• Customer Use: Apple conservatively assumes a three-year period for power use by first owners.  
Product use scenarios are based on historical customer use data for similar products. Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a regional level. 

• Recycling: Includes transportation from collection hubs to recycling centers, and the energy used in 

mechanical separation and shredding of parts. 

Energy eﬃciency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions: 

• Power adapter no-load: Condition in which the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to  

USB Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone. 

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple USB Power Adapter with the Lightning to USB Cable 
(1m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the 
power adapter’s rated output current. 

Restricted substances: Apple defines a material as BFR-free and PVC-free if it contains less than 900 parts 
per million (ppm) of bromine and of chlorine. Apple defines a material as beryllium-free if it contains less 
than 1000 parts per million (ppm) of beryllium. A complete list of Apple’s restrictions on hazardous 
substances is available at www.apple.com/environment/answers. 

1. Product evaluations based on U.S. conﬁgurations of iPhone 6s Plus 32GB. 

2. Greenhouse gas emissions vary according to the conﬁguration of iPhone 6s Plus. The following table details the estimated 

greenhouse gas emissions for U.S. conﬁgurations of iPhone 6s Plus over its life cycle. 

Conﬁguration

iPhone 6s Plus 32GB

iPhone 6s Plus 128GB

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

63kg CO2e

70kg CO2e

3. Excludes Apple Lightning to USB Cable and Apple USB Power Adapter. Mass will vary by conﬁguration. 

© 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.

Environmental Report  |  iPhone 6s Plus  |  September 2016 

 4

