Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 13 

Date introduced 

September 14, 2021

Made with better materials

99% 

recycled tungsten

98% 

recycled rare earth 
elements

Energy efficient 

54% 

less energy consumed than the  
U.S. Department of Energy requirements  
for battery charger systems  

Responsible packaging

100% 

 95% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

of the packaging is 
fiber based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

Tackling climate change

100% 

We’re committed to transitioning our entire 
manufacturing supply chain to 100 percent 
renewable electricity by 2030. 

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through 
Apple Trade In and we’ll give it 
a new life or recycle it for free.

First Apple product to use 100 percent certified recycled 
gold—now in the plating of the main logic board.

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 13.

2

Taking responsibility for  
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

Recover

iPhone 13    
life cycle 
64 kg carbon 
emissions3

Use

Package 
and Ship

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by 
focusing on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and 
with renewable energy. Suppliers’ use of renewable energy through our Supplier Clean 
Energy Program helped reduce the overall iPhone 13 carbon footprint by nearly 6 percent 
compared to the previous generation.4 And in the enclosure, we use recycled aluminum 
as well as aluminum smelted primarily with low-carbon sources of electricity, like 
hydroelectricity. Apple is committed to using carbon life cycle assessments to identify 
opportunities to drive down product greenhouse gas emissions.

iPhone 13 
life cycle carbon emissions 

 81%  Production 

  2%  Transport 

16%   Use 

 <1%  End-of-life processing

2

      iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

iPhone 13 is the first Apple product to use 100 percent certified 
recycled gold in the plating of the main logic board.  

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition,  
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. Apple 
also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium smelters 
and refiners to participate in third-party audits.5 We’re proud to be recognized as a worldwide 
leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs also consider 
the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use of hundreds  
of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect people and  
the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Tungsten 

Tin 

We use 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in all magnets, representing 
98 percent of the total rare earth elements  
in the device.

We use 100 percent recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 99 percent of 
the total tungsten in the device.

We use 100 percent recycled tin in the solder 
of the main logic board and, for the first time,  
the battery management unit.

Plastic 

Gold 

We’re transitioning from fossil fuel–based 
plastics to those made from renewable or 
recycled sources. For iPhone 13, we use  
35 percent or more recycled plastic in  
12 components. The antenna lines also use 
upcycled plastic from bottles that have been 
chemically transformed into a stronger, 
higher-performance material.

Apple is pioneering industry-leading levels  
of traceability in recycled materials to build  
a gold supply chain of exclusively recycled 
content. For the first time, we’re using 
100 percent certified recycled gold in an 
Apple product—now in the plating of the main 
logic board and the wire in the front camera 
and the rear cameras. 

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 13 is free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame retardants, PVC, 
phthalates, arsenic in the display glass, and mercury.1 And 100 percent of the materials in 
iPhone 13 are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go beyond what’s 
required by aiming to understand the non-regulated substances in every part of every product—
an effort that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through the entire supply chain. 
We consistently identify the makeup of over 75 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

3

     iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for  
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that  
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance  
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people  
are treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce suppliers’ environmental impact. Our 
requirements apply across our supply chain, and include the responsible sourcing of materials. 
From the strong foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition  
to renewable energy, to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting 
final assembly suppliers in reducing waste.

Zero Waste to Landfill 

All established iPhone 13 final 

assembly supplier sites do not 

generate any waste sent to landfill.7

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone 13 final assembly supplier 

sites are transitioning to 100 percent 

renewable energy for Apple production. 

Greener chemicals 

All established iPhone 13 final assembly 

supplier sites use safer cleaners and 

degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes, as determined by methodologies 

like the GreenScreen® assessment.6

4

      iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

We eliminated the need for the outer plastic wrap by redesigning the 
packaging with a seal that protects the product during transit. This 
brings us one step closer to our goal of completely removing plastic 
from all our packaging by 2025. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.8 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.9 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.

95% 

of the packaging10 
is fiber based, due to  
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

67% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood  
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests8

5

     iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone 13 uses 54 percent less energy than the energy 
conservation standard.  

We design our products to be energy efficient, long lasting, and safe. iPhone 13 uses software 
and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. We also run  
our own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs, where our products go through rigorous 
testing before they leave our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s life cycle, 
with regular software updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized repair 
professionals to service them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy Federal 
Energy Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.11 iPhone 13 consumes 
54 percent less energy than required by this standard.

U.S. Department of 
Energy standard

iPhone 13 

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

iPhone 13 features Ceramic Shield 
as well as IP68 water and dust 
resistance that enhance the 
durability of the device.12 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based  
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6

      iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In and we’ll ensure it has  
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices and 
accessories to Apple. Eligible devices can be traded in for credit or an Apple Store Gift Card, 
while accessories and other devices can be recycled for free.13 We also offer and participate 
in product take-back and recycling collection programs for 99 percent of the countries where 
we sell products—and we hold our recyclers to high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful 
substances out of our products also mean our materials are safer to recover and reuse.

iPhone recycling  

We designed a disassembly robot, Daisy, to take 

apart iPhone devices into distinct components. Our 

newest disassembly robot, Dave, takes the next 

step: disassembling the Taptic Engine to recover 

materials like rare earth elements and tungsten.  

See Dave in action  

7

      iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipRecoverDefinitions

Endnotes

Recycled materials: Recycling makes better use  
of finite resources by sourcing from recovered rather 
than mined materials. Recycled content claims for 
materials used in our products have been verified  
by an independent third party to a recycled content 
standard that conforms to ISO 14021.  

Bio-based plastics: Bio-based plastics are made 
from biological sources rather than from fossil-fuel 
sources. Bio-based plastics allow us to reduce  
reliance on fossil fuels. 

Renewable materials: We define bio-materials as 
those that can be regenerated in a human lifespan, 
like paper fibers or sugarcane. Bio-materials can  
help us use fewer finite resources. But even though 
bio-materials have the ability to regrow, they are not 
always managed responsibly. Renewable materials  
are a type of bio-material managed in a way that 
enables continuous production without depleting 
earth’s resources. That’s why we focus on sources  
that are certified for their management practices. 

Supplier Clean Energy Program: Since the electricity 
used to make our products is the largest contributor  
to our overall carbon footprint, we’re helping our 
suppliers become more energy efficient and transition 
to new renewable energy sources. We’re committed  
to transitioning our entire manufacturing supply chain  
to 100 percent renewable electricity by 2030.  

Carbon footprint: Estimated emissions are calculated 
in accordance with guidelines and requirements as 
specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. There is 
inherent uncertainty in modeling carbon emissions 
due primarily to data limitations. For the top 
component contributors to Apple’s carbon emissions, 

Apple addresses this uncertainty by developing 
detailed process-based environmental models 
with Apple-specific parameters. For the remaining 
elements of Apple’s carbon footprint, we rely on 
industry average data and assumptions. Calculation 
includes emissions for the following life cycle phases 
contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 
100 years) in CO2 equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, 
and transportation of raw materials, as well as the 
manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts 
and product packaging. 

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of  
the finished product and its associated packaging 
from manufacturing site to regional distribution 
hubs. Transport of products from distribution hubs 
to  
end customers is modeled using average distances 
based on regional geography. 

• Use: Apple assumes a three- or four-year period  

for power use by first owners based on the product 
type. Product use scenarios are based on historical 
customer use data for similar products. Energy use is 
simulated in various ways; for example, by modeling 
daily battery drain or through performing activities 
like movie and music playback. Geographic 
differences in the power grid mix have been 
accounted for at a regional level. 

• End-of-life processing: Includes transportation 
from collection hubs to recycling centers and 
the energy used in mechanical separation and 
shredding of parts. For more information on the 
carbon footprint, visit apple.com/environment/
answers.

  1 Apple defines its restrictions on harmful substances, including definitions for what Apple considers to be “free of,” 

in the Apple Regulated Substances Specification. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the 
exception of AC power cords in India, Thailand (for 2-prong AC power cords), and South Korea, where we continue 
to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement. Apple products comply with the European 
Union Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead such as high-temperature  
solder. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where technically possible. 

  2 iPhone 13 achieved a Gold rating in the United States and Canada, in accordance with IEEE 1680.1 or UL 110, and  

is listed as such on the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) Registry. EPEAT registers 
computers, displays, and mobile phones based on environmental requirements in these standards. For more 
information, visit www.epeat.net. 

  3 Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using a life cycle assessment methodology in accordance with ISO  

14040 and 14044 standards and based on iPhone 13 with 128GB storage. We often update our carbon models to 
leverage new information. As a result, our estimate for the carbon footprint of the previous generation—iPhone 12 
with 64GB storage—decreased from 70 kg CO2e (as published in its Product Environmental Report) to 68 kg CO2e.

Carbon footprint

iPhone 13

64GB

128GB

256GB

512GB

—

64 kg CO2e

71 kg CO2e

83 kg CO2e

iPhone 12

68 kg CO2e

72 kg CO2e

80 kg CO2e

—

8

     iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

Endnotes

  4 iPhone 12 was used for comparison as the most recently released and similar device. Preproduction iPhone 13 with 
128GB storage was compared to shipping iPhone 12 with 64GB storage since these are the two lowest storage 
configurations offered. 

  5 We map materials in our supply chain and publish a list of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG), cobalt, 
and lithium smelters and refiners in our supply chain. Third-party assessments seek to confirm sourcing practices 
and are part of our responsible sourcing program. In addition, our efforts consider a broad range of risks, including 
social, environmental, human rights, and governance risks. 

  6 Chemicals that meet GreenScreen® benchmark 3 or 4 or other equivalent methodologies like U.S. EPA Safer 

Choice are considered safer and preferred for use. GreenScreen® is a comprehensive hazard assessment tool that 
evaluates substances against 18 different criteria. For more information, visit www.greenscreenchemicals.org. 

  7 All established final assembly supplier sites—or those that have been Apple suppliers for more than one year— 

for iPhone 13 are third-party certified as Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL requires at least 
90 percent diversion through methods other than waste to energy to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill (Silver  
90–94 percent, Gold 95–99 percent, and Platinum 100 percent) designations.  

  8 Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Sustainable Fiber Specification. We consider wood fibers 

to include bamboo. 

  9 For more information about our work to protect and create responsibly managed forests, please read our 

Environmental Progress Report. 

 10 Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Select non-plastic, non-fiber materials excluded.  

  11 Efficiency performance is based on the U.S. Department of Energy Federal Energy Conservation Standards for  

Battery Chargers. Please note that ENERGY STAR does not certify smartphone devices.  

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions.  

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C to Lightning 

Cable (1m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone.  

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C to Lightning Cable 
(1m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power 
adapter’s rated output current.  

Power consumption for iPhone 13

Mode

Power adapter, no-load

Power adapter efficiency

100V

0.04W

86.8%

115V

0.04W

87.9%

230V

0.05W

87.8%

  12 iPhone 13 are splash, water, and dust resistant and were tested under controlled laboratory conditions with a rating 

of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 6 meters up to 30 minutes). Splash, water, and dust 
resistance are not permanent conditions and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt 
to charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide for cleaning and drying instructions. Liquid damage not covered 
under warranty. 

 13 Trade-in values vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your trade-in device, and may also vary 

between online and in-store trade-in. You must be at least 18 years old. In-store trade-in requires presentation of  
a valid, government-issued photo ID (local law may require saving this information). Additional terms from Apple  
or Apple’s trade-in partners may apply.

© 2021 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. 
and other countries. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered trademarks owned by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of 
their respective companies. 

9

      iPhone 13 

Product Environmental Report

 
 
 
