Product Environmental Report 
iPhone SE (3rd generation) 

Date introduced 

March 18, 2022

Made with better materials

100% 

recycled rare earth 
elements in the Taptic 
Engine and audio magnets

100% 

recycled tungsten in 
the Taptic Engine

Energy efficient 

64% 

less energy used than the 
U.S. Department of Energy requirements 
for battery charger systems

Responsible packaging

100% 

 93% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

of the packaging is 
fiber-based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

Tackling climate change

100% 

We’re committed to transitioning our entire 
manufacturing supply chain to 100 percent 
renewable electricity by 2030. 

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through
Apple Trade In, and we’ll give it
a new life or recycle it for free.

100% recycled rare earth elements in the Taptic Engine 
and audio magnets

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone SE (3rd generation).

2

Taking responsibility for 
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

iPhone SE  
(3rd generation)    
life cycle 
46 kg carbon
emissions3

Recover

Package 
and Ship

Use

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by focusing 
on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and with renewable 
energy. Suppliers’ use of renewable energy through our Supplier Clean Energy Program helped 
reduce the overall iPhone SE (3rd generation) carbon footprint by more than 16 percent 
compared with the previous generation.4 Apple is committed to using carbon life cycle 
assessments to identify opportunities to drive down product greenhouse gas emissions.

iPhone SE (3rd generation) 
life cycle carbon emissions 

 82%  Production 

  4%  Transport 

 13%  Use 

 <1%  End-of-life processing

2

      iPhone SE (3rd generation) 

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

iPhone SE (3rd generation) is made with 100 percent recycled rare 
earth elements in the Taptic Engine and audio magnets. 

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. 
Apple also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium 
smelters and refiners to participate in third-party audits.5 We’re proud to be recognized as a 
worldwide leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs 
also consider the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use 
of hundreds of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect 
people and the environment.

Tungsten 

Rare earth elements 

Plastic 

Tin 

We use 100 percent recycled 
tungsten in the Taptic Engine, 
which represents 100 percent of 
the total tungsten in the device.6 

We use 100 percent recycled 
rare earth elements in the Taptic 
Engine and audio magnets, 
representing 91 percent of the 
total rare earth elements in the 
device.

We’re transitioning from fossil 
fuel–based plastics to those 
made from renewable or 
recycled sources. For iPhone SE 
(3rd generation), we use 
35 percent or more recycled 
plastic in six components.

We use 100 percent recycled 
tin in the solder of the main 
logic board.

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone SE (3rd generation) is free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame 
retardants, PVC, phthalates, arsenic in the display glass, and mercury.1 And 100 percent of the 
materials in iPhone SE (3rd generation) are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. 
We go beyond what’s required by aiming to understand the non-regulated substances in every 
part of every product—an effort that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through 
the entire supply chain. We consistently identify the makeup of over 75 percent by mass of 
iPhone devices.

3

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)  

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for 
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that 
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance 
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people 
are treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce suppliers’ environmental impact. Our 
requirements apply across our supply chain and include the responsible sourcing of materials. 
From the strong foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition 
to renewable energy, to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting 
final assembly suppliers in reducing waste.

Zero Waste to Landfill 

No established iPhone SE (3rd generation) 

final assembly supplier sites generate any 

waste sent to landfill.8

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone SE (3rd generation) final 

assembly supplier sites are transitioning 

to 100 percent renewable energy for 

Apple production. 

Greener chemicals 

All established iPhone SE (3rd generation) 

final assembly supplier sites use safer 

cleaners and degreasers in their 

manufacturing processes, as determined 

by methodologies like the GreenScreen® 

assessment.7

4

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)   

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

We eliminated the need for the outer plastic wrap by redesigning the 
packaging with a seal that protects the product during transit. This 
brings us one step closer to our goal of completely removing plastic 
from all our packaging by 2025. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.9 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.10 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.

93% 

of the packaging11 
is fiber-based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

59% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood 
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests9

5

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)  

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone SE (3rd generation) uses 64 percent less energy than the 
energy conservation standard.12 

We design our products to be energy efficient, long-lasting, and safe. iPhone SE (3rd generation) 
uses software and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. 
We also run our own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs, where our products go through 
rigorous testing before they leave our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s 
life cycle, with regular software updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized 
repair professionals to service them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy 
Federal Energy Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.12 
iPhone SE (3rd generation) consumes 64 percent less energy than 
required by this standard.

U.S. Department of 
Energy standard 

 iPhone SE (3rd generation)   

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

To ensure durability, we assessed 
iPhone SE (3rd generation) in our 
Reliability Testing Lab, using 
rigorous testing methods that 
simulate customers’ experiences. 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based 
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)  

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In, and we’ll ensure it has 
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices and 
accessories to Apple. Eligible devices can be traded in for credit or an Apple Store Gift Card, 
while accessories and other devices can be recycled for free.13 We also offer and participate
in product take-back and recycling collection programs for 99 percent of the countries where 
we sell products—and we hold our recyclers to high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful 
substances out of our products also mean our materials are safer to recover and reuse.

iPhone recycling  

We designed a disassembly robot, Daisy, to take 

apart iPhone devices into distinct components. Our 

newest disassembly robot, Dave, takes the next 

step: disassembling the Taptic Engine to recover 

materials like rare earth elements and tungsten.  

See Dave in action  

7

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)  

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipRecoverDefinitions

Bio-based plastics: Bio-based plastics are made 
from biological sources rather than from fossil-fuel 
sources. Bio-based plastics allow us to reduce reliance 
on fossil fuels. 

daily battery drain or through performing activities like 
movie and music playback. Geographic differences 
in the power grid mix have been accounted for at a 
regional level. 

Carbon footprint: Estimated emissions are calculated 
in accordance with guidelines and requirements as 
specified by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. There is 
inherent uncertainty in modeling carbon emissions 
due primarily to data limitations. For the top 
component contributors to Apple’s carbon emissions, 
Apple addresses this uncertainty by developing 
detailed process-based environmental models 
with Apple-specific parameters. For the remaining 
elements of Apple’s carbon footprint, we rely on 
industry average data and assumptions. Calculation 
includes emissions for the following life cycle phases 
contributing to Global Warming Potential (GWP 
100 years) in CO2 equivalency factors (CO2e): 

• Production: Includes the extraction, production, 
and transportation of raw materials, as well as the 
manufacture, transport, and assembly of all parts 
and product packaging. 

• Transport: Includes air and sea transportation of 
the finished product and its associated packaging 
from manufacturing site to regional distribution hubs. 
Transport of products from distribution hubs to end 
customers is modeled using average distances 
based on regional geography. 

• Use: Apple assumes a three- or four-year period 

for power use by first owners based on the product 
type. Product use scenarios are based on historical 
customer use data for similar products. Energy use is 
simulated in various ways; for example, by modeling 

• End-of-life processing: Includes transportation 
from collection hubs to recycling centers and 
the energy used in mechanical separation and 
shredding of parts. For more information on the 
carbon footprint, visit apple.com/environment/
answers 

Recycled materials: Recycling makes better use 
of finite resources by sourcing from recovered rather 
than mined materials. Recycled content claims for 
materials used in our products have been verified 
by an independent third party to a recycled content 
standard that conforms to ISO 14021.  

Renewable materials: We define bio-materials as 
those that can be regenerated in a human lifespan, 
like paper fibers or sugarcane. Bio-materials can 
help us use fewer finite resources. But even though 
bio-materials have the ability to regrow, they are not 
always managed responsibly. Renewable materials 
are a type of bio-material managed in a way that 
enables continuous production without depleting the 
earth’s resources. That’s why we focus on sources 
that are certified for their management practices. 

Supplier Clean Energy Program: Since the electricity 
used to make our products is the largest contributor to 
our overall carbon footprint, we’re helping our suppliers 
become more energy efficient and transition to new 
renewable energy sources. We’re committed to 
transitioning our entire manufacturing supply chain to 
100 percent renewable electricity by 2030.

  1 Apple defines its restrictions on harmful substances, including definitions for what Apple considers to be “free of,” 
in the Apple Regulated Substances Specification. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates except for 
AC power cords in India, Thailand (for 2-prong AC power cords), and South Korea, where we continue to seek 
government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement. Apple products comply with the European Union 
Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use of lead such as high-temperature 
solder. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted substances where technically possible. 

  2 iPhone SE (3rd generation) achieved a Gold rating in the United States and Canada, in accordance with IEEE 1680.1 
or UL 110, and is listed as such on the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) Registry. EPEAT 
registers computers, displays, and mobile phones based on environmental requirements in these standards. For more 
information, visit www.epeat.net. 

  3 Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using a life cycle assessment methodology in accordance with ISO  
14040 and 14044 standards and based on iPhone SE (3rd generation) with 64GB storage. We often update 
our carbon models to leverage new information. As a result, our estimate for the carbon footprint of the previous 
generation—iPhone SE (2nd generation) with 64GB storage—decreased from 57 kg CO2e (as published in its 
Product Environmental Report) to 55 kg CO2e.  

Carbon footprint

iPhone SE (3rd generation)

iPhone SE (2nd generation)

64GB

128GB

256GB

46 kg CO2e

50 kg CO2e

58 kg CO2e

55 kg CO2e

59 kg CO2e

70 kg CO2e

Endnotes

8

      iPhone SE (3rd generation) 

Product Environmental Report

Endnotes

  4 iPhone SE (2nd generation) was used for comparison as the most recently released and similar device. 

Preproduction iPhone SE (3rd generation) with 64GB storage was compared to shipping iPhone SE (2nd 
generation) with 64GB storage configuration since these are the two lowest storage configurations offered. 

  5 We map materials in our supply chain and publish a list of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG), cobalt 
and lithium smelters and refiners in our supply chain. Third-party assessments seek to confirm sourcing practices 
and are part of our responsible sourcing program. In addition, our efforts consider a broad range of risks, including 
social, environmental, human rights, and governance risks. 

  6 Excludes trace amount of tungsten found outside of the Taptic Engine and accounting for less than 0.4 percent of 

the total found in the device. 

  7 Chemicals that meet GreenScreen® benchmark 3 or 4 or other equivalent methodologies like U.S. EPA Safer 

Choice are considered safer and preferred for use. GreenScreen® is a comprehensive hazard assessment tool that 
evaluates substances against 18 different criteria. For more information, visit www.greenscreenchemicals.org. 

  8 All established final assembly supplier sites—or those that have been Apple suppliers for more than one year—

for iPhone SE (3rd generation) are third-party verified as Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL requires at 
least 90 percent diversion through methods other than waste to energy to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill (Silver 
90–94 percent, Gold 95–99 percent, and Platinum 100 percent) designations.  

  9 Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Sustainable Fiber Specification. We consider wood fibers 

to include bamboo. 

 10 For more information about our work to protect and create responsibly managed forests, please read our 

Environmental Progress Report. 

  11 Breakdown of U.S. retail packaging by weight. Select non-plastic, non-fiber materials excluded. 

 12 Efficiency performance is based on the U.S. Department of Energy Federal Energy Conservation Standards for 

Battery Chargers. Please note that ENERGY STAR does not certify smartphone devices.  

Energy efficiency terms: The energy efficiency values are based on the following conditions.  

• Power adapter, no-load: Condition in which the Apple 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C to Lightning 

Cable (1 m) is connected to AC power, but not connected to iPhone.  

• Power adapter efficiency: Average of the Apple 20W USB-C Power Adapter with the USB-C to Lightning Cable 
(1 m) measured efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power 
adapter’s rated output current.  

Power consumption for iPhone SE (3rd generation)

Mode

Power adapter, no-load

Power adapter efficiency

100V

0.04W

86.8%

115V

0.04W

87.9%

230V

0.05W

87.8%

 13 Trade-in values vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your trade-in device, and may also vary 

between online and in-store trade-in. You must be at least 18 years old. In-store trade-in requires presentation of 
a valid, government-issued photo ID (local law may require saving this information). Additional terms from Apple 
or Apple’s trade-in partners may apply.

© 2022 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, the Mac logo, iPhone, Lightning, iPad, Apple 
Watch, HomePod, Apple TV, iOS, iPadOS, macOS, tvOS, and watchOS are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in 
the U.S. and other countries and regions. iPhone SE (3rd generation) is a trademark of Apple Inc. Apple Store is a 
service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries and regions. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY 
STAR mark are registered trademarks owned by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Other product and 
company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies. 

9

      iPhone SE (3rd generation)  

Product Environmental Report

