Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 11 Pro 

September 10, 2019

Made with better materials

100% 

recycled tin in the 
solder of the main 
logic board and 
power adapter

100% 

recycled rare earth 
elements in the 
Taptic Engine 

Energy efficient

40% 

less energy used than the  
U.S. Department of Energy 
requirements for battery 
charger systems

Responsible packaging

<5% 

plastic in packaging  

100% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

Tackling climate change

100% 

All iPhone 11 Pro final assembly suppliers 
have committed to 100% renewable energy 
for Apple production.

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free 

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through 
Apple Trade In and we’ll give it 
a new life or recycle it for free.

First-ever smartphone made with  
100% recycled rare earth elements in the Taptic Engine*

*The Taptic Engine represents about 24 percent of the total rare earth elements used in the product. 
This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 11 Pro. 

2

Taking responsibility for  
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 

And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

Recover

iPhone 11 Pro 
life cycle 
80 kg carbon 
emissions3

Use

Package 
and Ship

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by focusing 
on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and with renewable 

energy. Through innovative manufacturing techniques, we’ve reduced the carbon emissions 
associated with the steel band by 10 percent.4 And the overall carbon footprint is about the 

same as that of iPhone XS.5 Apple is committed to using carbon life cycle assessments to 
identify opportunities to drive down product greenhouse gas emissions.  

iPhone 11 Pro life cycle  
carbon emissions 

83%  Production 

  3%  Transport 

 13%  Use 

 <1%  End-of-life processing

2
        iPhone 11 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

First smartphone made with 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in the Taptic Engine.* 

To conserve precious resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 

we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We identify and map 
materials in our products to the farthest reaches of our supply chain, and proudly lead our 

industry in establishing the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. Our product designs 
also consider the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the  
use of hundreds of harmful substances. Our standards go far beyond what’s required by law  
to protect people and the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Plastic 

Tin 

Most magnets in consumer electronics are 

We’re transitioning to renewable and recycled 

We use 100 percent recycled tin6 in the 

made with virgin rare earth elements, and 
rarely do those used get recycled. So we 

alternatives from fossil fuel–based plastics. 
For iPhone 11 Pro, we use 35 percent or more 

solder of the main logic board and the power 
adapter. Apple also requires 100 percent of 

worked with our suppliers to make a new 
magnet with 100 percent recycled rare earth 

elements for the Taptic Engine. This means 
more materials in the device come from 

recycled sources—not mines.

recycled plastic in multiple components.

identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, and 
cobalt smelters and refiners to participate in 

third-party audits.7

Made without 

Free of harmful substances like mercury, brominated flame retardants, PVC, phthalates,  
arsenic in the display glass, and beryllium.1 And 100 percent of the materials in iPhone 11 Pro  
are protected by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go even further by aiming to 
understand the nonregulated substances in every part of every product—so far we’ve  
identified the makeup of 75 percent by mass of iPhone 11 Pro.

*The Taptic Engine represents about 24 percent of the total rare earth elements used in the product. 

3
        iPhone 11 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

Every year, we assess our suppliers against our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, which requires suppliers to make workplaces better for 
employees and the environment. 

We work closely with the suppliers that make our products to reduce their environmental impact, 
and to treat people making Apple products with dignity and respect, provide opportunities  

to advance, and maintain a safe work environment. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets high 
expectations for our suppliers. With strong foundational standards, we can make further 

progress, from helping suppliers transition to renewable energy to providing educational 
opportunities for their employees. And in 2018, we achieved UL Zero Waste certification for 

all iPhone final assembly test and packaging facilities.8

Zero Waste to Landfill 

iPhone 11 Pro final assembly supplier 

sites do not generate any waste sent to 

landfill.8

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone 11 Pro final assembly 

suppliers have begun transitioning to 

100 percent renewable energy for 
Apple production.  

Greener chemicals 

 All iPhone 11 Pro final assembly 

supplier sites use safer cleaners and 

degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes.9

4
        iPhone 11 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

iPhone 11 Pro packaging is made with recyclable, fiber-based 
materials. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, 
and use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled 

or comes from responsibly managed forests.10 And we have protected or created enough 
responsibly managed forests to cover all the wood fiber we use in our packaging.11 This  

ensures working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.  

100% 

of the primary wood  
fiber in the packaging 

comes from responsibly 
managed forests10 

95% 

of the packaging12 is  
fiber based 

64% 

of the fiber content  
in packaging is recycled

5      iPhone 11 Pro 
        iPhone 11 Pro 
5

Product Environmental Report
Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone 11 Pro uses 40 percent less energy than the energy 
conservation standard. 

We design our products to be energy efficient, long lasting, and safe. iPhone 11 Pro uses 
software and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. We 

also run our own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs so our products go through rigorous 
testing before they leave our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s life cycle, 

with regular software updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized repair 
professionals to service them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy Federal Energy 
Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.13 iPhone 11 Pro consumes 40 percent 

less energy than required by this standard.

U.S. Department of 
Energy standard

iPhone 11 Pro 

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

iPhone 11 Pro will launch with 

iOS 13, which offers features to 
optimize battery charging and 

reduce the effects of battery aging. 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch most—all 

based on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6
        iPhone 11 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In and we’ll ensure it has  
a long life, or we’ll recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices to Apple. 
Customers can trade in eligible devices for an Apple Store Gift Card.14 If a device is not eligible  
for credit, we’ll recycle it for free. For more information on how to recycle your products at end of 

life, visit apple.com/shop/trade-in. We also offer and participate in product take-back and recycling 
programs for 99 percent of the countries where we sell products—and we hold our recyclers to 

high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful substances out of our products also mean our 
materials are safer to recover and reuse.

iPhone recycling 

Daisy, Apple’s line of disassembly robots, can 

disassemble 15 different models of iPhone, 
recovering more of the important materials 

stored inside. 

See Daisy in action

7
        iPhone 11 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipRecoverDefinitions

Endnotes

Recycled materials: Recycling makes better use  
of finite resources by sourcing from recovered rather 
than mined materials. Recycled content claims for 
materials used in our products have been verified by 
an independent third party to a recycled content 
standard that conforms to ISO 14021.  

Bio-based plastics: Bio-based plastics are made 
from bi