Product Environmental Report 
iPhone 14 Pro  

Date introduced 

September 7, 2022

Made with better materials

100% 

100% 

recycled gold in the 
wire of all cameras 

recycled rare earth 
elements in all magnets

Energy efficient 

54% 

less energy consumed than the U.S. 
Department of Energy requirements for 
battery charger systems

Responsible packaging

100% 

 95% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

of the packaging is 
fiber-based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

Tackling climate change

100% 

We’re committed to transitioning our entire 
manufacturing supply chain to 100 percent 
renewable electricity by 2030. 

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through
Apple Trade In, and we’ll give it
a new life or recycle it for free.

100% recycled gold in the wire of all cameras 
and in the plating of multiple printed circuit boards

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone 14 Pro.

2

Taking responsibility for 
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

iPhone 14 Pro
life cycle 
65 kg carbon
emissions3

Recover

Package 
and Ship

Use

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by focusing 
on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and with renewable 
energy. Suppliers’ use of renewable energy through our Supplier Clean Energy Program helped 
drive down the carbon footprint by nearly 6 percent compared to the previous generation.4 Apple 
is committed to using carbon life cycle assessments to identify opportunities to drive down 
product greenhouse gas emissions.

iPhone 14 Pro 
life cycle carbon emissions 

 81%  Production 

  3%  Transport 

 15%  Use 

 <1%  End-of-life processing

2

      iPhone 14 Pro  

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

The wires of all cameras are made with 100% recycled gold. 

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition, 
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. Apple 
also requires 100 percent of identified tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, cobalt, and lithium smelters 
and refiners to participate in third-party audits.5 We’re proud to be recognized as a worldwide 
leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals in our products. Our product designs also consider 
the safety of those who make, use, and recycle our products, restricting the use of hundreds 
of harmful substances. Our standards go beyond what’s required by law to protect people and 
the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Tungsten 

Tin 

We use 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in all magnets, representing 
100 percent of the total rare earth elements 
in the device.6

We use 100 percent recycled tungsten in the 
Taptic Engine. This represents 99 percent of 
the total tungsten in the device.

We use 100 percent recycled tin in the solder 
of multiple printed circuit boards, including the 
main logic board.

Plastic 

Gold 

We’re transitioning from fossil fuel–based 
plastics to those made from renewable or 
recycled sources. For iPhone 14 Pro, we 
use 35 percent or more recycled plastic in 
15 components.

Apple is pioneering industry-leading levels 
of traceability in recycled materials to build 
a gold supply chain of exclusively recycled 
content. We’re now using 100 percent 
recycled gold in the wire of all cameras and 
the plating of multiple printed circuit boards.

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone 14 Pro is free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame retardants, PVC, 
phthalates, arsenic in the glass, and mercury.1 And 100 percent of the materials in iPhone 14 Pro 
are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go beyond what’s required by 
aiming to understand the non-regulated substances in every part of every product—an effort 
that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through the entire supply chain. We 
consistently identify the makeup of over 75 percent by mass of iPhone devices.

3

      iPhone 14 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for 
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that 
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance 
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people 
are treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce suppliers’ environmental impact. Our 
requirements apply across our supply chain and include the responsible sourcing of materials. 
From the strong foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition 
to renewable energy, to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting 
final assembly suppliers in reducing waste.

Zero Waste to Landfill 

No established iPhone 14 Pro final 

assembly supplier sites generate any 

waste sent to landfill.8

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone 14 Pro final assembly supplier 

sites are transitioning to 100 percent 

renewable energy for Apple production. 

Greener chemicals 

All established iPhone 14 Pro final assembly 

supplier sites use safer cleaners and 

degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes, as determined by methodologies 

like the GreenScreen® assessment.7

4

      iPhone 14 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

iPhone 14 Pro packaging does not use outer plastic wrap.9 This 
brings us one step closer to our goal of completely removing plastic 
from all our packaging by 2025. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.10 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.11 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.

95% 

of the packaging12 
is fiber-based, due to 
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging  

74% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood 
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests10

5

      iPhone 14 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone 14 Pro uses 54 percent less energy than the energy 
conservation standard.13 

We design our products to be energy efficient, long-lasting, and safe. iPhone 14 Pro uses 
software and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. 
With the Clean Energy Charging iOS feature introduced in fall 2022 in the U.S., iPhone can 
optimize charging for when the electricity is the cleanest. We also run our own Reliability and 
Environmental Testing Labs, where our products go through rigorous testing before they leave 
our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s life cycle, with regular software 
updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized repair professionals to service 
them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy Federal 
Energy Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.13 iPhone 14 Pro 
consumes 54 percent less energy than required by this standard.

U.S. Department of 
Energy standard

iPhone 14 Pro

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

iPhone 14 Pro features Ceramic 
Shield as well as IP68 water and 
dust resistance that enhance the 
durability of the device.14 

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based 
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6

      iPhone 14 Pro 

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In and we’ll ensure it has 
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices and 
accessories to Apple. Eligible devices can be traded in for credit or an Apple Store Gift Card, 
while accessories and other devices can be recycled for free.15 We also offer and participate
in product take-back and recycling collection programs for 99 percent of the countries where 
we sell products—and we hold our recyclers to high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful 
substances out of our products also mean our materials are safer to recover and reuse.

iPhone recycling  

We designed a disassembly robot, Daisy, to take 

apart iPhone devices into distinct components. Our 

newest disassembly robot, Dave, takes the next 

step: disassembling the Taptic Engine to recover 

materials like rare earth elements and tungsten.  

See Dave in action  

7
