Product Environmental Report 
iPhone SE 

Date introduced 

April 15, 2020

Made with better materials

100% 

recycled rare earth 
elements in the 
Taptic Engine 

100% 

recycled tin in the 
solder of the  
main logic board 

Energy efficient 

57% 

less energy used than the  
 U.S. Department of Energy requirements 
for battery charger systems 

Responsible packaging

100% 

of the wood fiber 
comes from recycled 
and responsible 
sources  

92% 

of the packaging is  
fiber based, due to  
our work to use less 
plastic in packaging 

Tackling climate change

100% 

of iPhone SE final assembly suppliers have 
committed to 100% renewable energy for 
Apple production 

Smarter chemistry¹ 

• Arsenic-free display glass 
• Mercury-free display 
• Brominated flame retardant–free 
• PVC-free 
• Beryllium-free

Apple Trade In 

Return your device through 
Apple Trade In and we’ll give it 
a new life or recycle it for free.

 100% recycled rare earth elements in the Taptic Engine*  

*The Taptic Engine represents about 34 percent of the total rare earth elements used in the product.  

This report includes data current as of product launch. Product evaluations are based on U.S. configuration of iPhone SE. 

2

Taking responsibility for  
our products at every stage 

We take responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles—including the materials 
they are made of, the people who assemble them, and how they are recycled at end of life. 
And we focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference for our planet: reducing 
our impact on climate change, conserving important resources, and using safer materials. 

We sell millions of products. 
So making even small 
adjustments can have a 
meaningful impact. 

Source 
Materials

Make

Recover

iPhone SE 
life cycle 
57 kg carbon 
emissions3

Use

Package 
and Ship

Carbon footprint  

We continue to make progress in reducing Apple’s contribution to climate change—by focusing 
on making energy-efficient products with renewable or recycled materials and with renewable 
energy. Planning for increased storage for iPhone SE, we worked with our suppliers to increase 
their use of renewable energy through our Supplier Clean Energy Program to keep the product’s 
carbon footprint about the same as the previous generation.4 Apple is committed to using carbon 
life cycle assessments to identify opportunities to drive down product greenhouse gas emissions.

iPhone SE life cycle  
carbon emissions 

 84%  Production 

  3%  Transport 

 12%  Use 

 <1%  End-of-life processing

2

    iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Source Materials 

Made with 100 percent recycled rare earth elements in the 
Taptic Engine.*  

To conserve important resources, we work to reduce the material we use and aim to one day 
source only recycled or renewable materials in our products. And as we make this transition,  
we remain committed to the responsible sourcing of primary materials. We map many materials, 
some to the mineral source, and establish the strictest standards for smelters and refiners. 
We’re proud to be recognized as a worldwide leader in the responsible sourcing of minerals  
in our products. Our product designs also consider the safety of those who make, use, and 
recycle our products, restricting the use of hundreds of harmful substances. Our standards  
go beyond what’s required by law to protect people and the environment.

Rare earth elements 

Aluminum 

Plastic 

Tin 

Most magnets in consumer 
electronics are made with virgin 
rare earth elements, and rarely 
do those used get recycled. 
So we worked with our suppliers 
to make a new magnet with 
100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements for the Taptic Engine. 
This means more materials in 
the device come from recycled 
sources—not mines.

Our focus on Apple’s carbon 
footprint extends to the materials 
we source. So we prioritized 
aluminum that was smelted using 
100 percent hydroelectricity 
rather than fossil fuels for the 
enclosure.

We’re transitioning to plastics 
from renewable or recycled 
sources as alternatives to  
fossil fuel–based plastics. For 
iPhone SE, we use 35 percent 
or more recycled plastic in 
multiple components.

We use 100 percent recycled tin 
in the solder of the main logic 
board, where the majority of the 
tin is located. Apple also requires 
100 percent of identified tin, 
tantalum, tungsten, gold, and 
cobalt smelters and refiners to 
participate in third-party audits.5

Smarter chemistry 

iPhone SE is free of harmful substances like beryllium, brominated flame retardants, PVC, 
phthalates, mercury in the display, and arsenic in the display glass.1 And 100 percent of the 
materials in iPhone SE are covered by our Regulated Substances Specification. We go beyond 
what’s required by aiming to understand the nonregulated substances in every part of every 
product—an effort that requires an industry-leading level of transparency through the entire 
supply chain. 

*The Taptic Engine represents about 34 percent of the total rare earth elements used in the product.

.

3

        iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverMakePackage  and ShipSource MaterialsMake 

The Apple Supplier Code of Conduct sets strict standards for  
the protection of people in our supply chain and the planet that  
we all share. Every year, we assess our suppliers’ performance  
in upholding the standards required by our Code. 

We work closely with our suppliers to provide safe and healthy workplaces where people are 
treated with dignity and respect, and to reduce their environmental impact. Our requirements 
apply across our supply chain, and include the responsible sourcing of materials. From the 
strong foundation set by our Code, we go further—from helping suppliers transition to 
renewable energy, to providing educational opportunities for their employees, to supporting  
final assembly suppliers in reducing waste. All final assembly sites for iPhone, iPad, Mac, 
Apple Watch, AirPods, HomePod, and Apple TV have been certified as UL Zero Waste facilities.6

Zero Waste to Landfill 

iPhone SE final assembly supplier  

sites do not generate any waste sent  

to landfill.6

Supplier energy use 

All iPhone SE final assembly 

suppliers are transitioning to 

100 percent renewable energy 

for Apple production. 

Greener chemicals 

 All iPhone SE final assembly supplier 

sites use safer cleaners and 

degreasers in their manufacturing 

processes, as determined by the 

GreenScreen® assessment method.7

4

      iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsPackage  and ShipMakePackage and Ship 

iPhone SE packaging is made with recyclable, fiber-based materials. 

To improve our packaging, we are working to eliminate plastics, increase recycled content, and 
use less packaging overall. All of the wood fiber in our packaging is either recycled or comes 
from responsibly managed forests.8 And we have protected or created enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all the virgin wood fiber we use in our packaging.9 This ensures 
working forests are able to regrow and continue to clean our air and purify our water.

92% 

of the packaging10 is  
fiber based, due to our 
work to use less plastic 
in packaging 

65% 

recycled content in 
fiber packaging 

100% 

of the virgin wood  
fiber in the packaging 
comes from responsibly 
managed forests8

5

      iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseRecoverSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipUse 

iPhone SE uses 57 percent less energy than the energy 
conservation standard. 

We design our products to be energy efficient, long lasting, and safe. iPhone SE uses software 
and power-efficient components that intelligently manage power consumption. We also run our 
own Reliability and Environmental Testing Labs, so our products go through rigorous testing 
before they leave our doors. Our support continues throughout each product’s life cycle, with 
regular software updates to keep devices current and a network of authorized repair 
professionals to service them, if necessary.

Energy efficiency 

Apple devices consistently exceed the U.S. Department of Energy Federal Energy 
Conservation Standards for Battery Chargers.11 iPhone SE consumes 57 percent 
less energy than required by this standard.

U.S. Department 
of Energy standard 

 iPhone SE 

kWh 
Uses less energy

kWh 
Uses more energy

Designed to last 

iPhone SE will launch with iOS 13, 
which offers features to optimize 
battery charging and reduce the 
effects of battery aging.  

Made with smarter 
chemistry 

We apply rigorous controls for 
materials users touch—all based  
on recommendations from 
toxicologists and dermatologists.

6

      iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Package  and ShipProductlife cycleRecoverSource MaterialsMakeUseRecover 

Return your product with Apple Trade In and we’ll ensure it has  
a long life or recycle it for free.  

When products are used longer, fewer resources are extracted from the earth. That’s why we 
launched Apple Trade In—it offers customers a seamless way to return their old devices to 
Apple. Customers can trade in eligible devices for an Apple Store Gift Card.12 If a device is not 
eligible for credit, we’ll recycle it for free. We also offer and participate in product take-back and 
recycling collection programs for 99 percent of the countries where we sell products—and we 
hold our recyclers to high standards. Our efforts to keep harmful substances out of our products 
also mean our materials are safer to recover and reuse.

iPhone recycling  

Daisy, Apple’s line of disassembly robots, can 

disassemble 15 different models of iPhone, 

recovering more of the important materials 

stored inside. 

See Daisy in action 

7

      iPhone SE 

Product Environmental Report

Productlife cycleUseSource MaterialsMakePackage  and ShipRecoverDefinit