Pixel 8 Pro 

Product environmental report

Model G1MNW
  introduced October 2023

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve 

each product’s environmental performance and minimize 

Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance of the 

Pixel 8 Pro over its full life cycle, from design and 

manufacturing through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 8 Pro is designed with the following key features to help 

reduce its environmental impact: 

UL ECOLOGO Gold1,2

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Designed with recycled aluminum to reduce its carbon footprint4

100% plastic-free packaging5

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8 Pro

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas 

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic 

products generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global 

temperatures. Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this 

product to identify materials and processes that contribute to GHG 

emissions, with the goal of minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 8 Pro

assuming three 
years of use:6 79 kg 
CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer Use

Recycling

81%

4%

14%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 8 Pro incorporates power-management software to 

maximize battery-charging efficiency and extend battery life during 

use.

Energy efficiency of 

Pixel 8 Pro

Standby (battery maintenance 
mode) power7

Annual energy use estimate8

Annual cost of energy estimate

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

0.19 W

0.20 W 

9 kWh

US$1.459

9 kWh

€2.5610

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8 Pro

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 8 Pro is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size 

and weight of the Pixel 8 Pro allows materials to be used more 

efficiently, thereby reducing the energy consumed during production 

and shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used in 

Pixel 8 Pro

Total materials:11 
213 g

65 g

Battery

38 g

Aluminum

27 g

Display

16 g

Other

15 g

Steel

16 g

Glass

17 g

Plastic

19 g

Electronics

Recycled materials

Pixel 8 Pro is made with at least 18% recycled materials based 

on product weight

The aluminum in the housing is 100% recycled content12

Pixel 8 Pro uses 100% recycled tin in the solder of all rigid and 

flexible printed circuit boards, including the main logic board, 

made at the final assembly site13

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as lead, 

mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose 

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 8 Pro to meet 

global regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the 

following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8 Pro

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and 

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

restrictions

Pixel 8 Pro also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions:14 

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 8 Pro uses 100% plastic-free materials.5 The 

greyboard used in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled 

content. We have designed the Pixel 8 Pro packaging to minimize its 

weight and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and 

allows more devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business 

operations are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. 

Learn more about our expectations for manufacturing partners in the 

Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our 2022 Supplier Responsibility 

Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy. 

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability 

initiatives— including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please 

see our Sustainability website and our 2023 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help 

section of our website.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8 Pro

Page 5

Endnotes

1.

ECOLOGO® Certified products are certified to ECOLOGO® standards for reduced 

environmental impact. For more information, visit ul.com/el. UL ECOLOGO-registered in the 

US only.

2.

Pixel 8 Pro is designed with approximately 68% recycled content across its plastic parts. 

This does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels,  cables, connectors, 

electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 

components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and 

adhesives.

3.

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted Substances 

Specification.

4.

Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party verified life cycle assessment. 

Recycled aluminum is at least 13% of product based on weight.

5.

Based on retail packaging (excluding adhesive materials) as shipped by Google. To meet the 

request of some clients, plastic stickers are applied to some packaging variations.

6.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 

requirements and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the 

production, transportation, use, and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging. 

7.

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with 

fully charged battery and attached to the power adapter using the in-box USB-C cable. 

Tested in accordance with a modified version of the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for 

Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers. Energy consumption patterns may 

vary when adaptive charging is enabled.

8.

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will 

vary by user.

9.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.16 per kWh (source: U.S. 

Energy Information Agency Jun 2023 report).

10.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.28 per kWh in 

the second half of 2022 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11.

Product material masses are for the Pixel 8 Pro only, excluding packaging and accessories. 

For the U.S. configuration, an additional 34 g of electronic accessories can be included 

in-box.

12.

Recycled aluminum is at least 13% of product based on weight.

13.

Solder paste is made with multiple materials and contains at least 80% tin. The tin in the 

solder paste is made with 100% recycled content.

14.

Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy metals 

(lead, cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted Substances 

Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8 Pro

Page 6

