Pixel 4a

Product environmental report

Model G025J, 
introduced August 2020 

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business has 

evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic products, 

we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve each product’s 

environmental performance and minimize Google’s impact on 

the world around us. 

This report details the environmental performance of the Pixel 4a 

over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing through 

usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 4a is designed with the following key features to help reduce its 

environmental impact1: 

EPEAT Gold

Mercury-free LED-backlit display

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability2

Arsenic-free glass

PVC-free

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free

47% post-consumer recycled content across its plastic mechanical parts

98% paper and fiber-based packaging

Power adapter with Level VI efficiency rating

Standby power less than 0.3 W

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic products  

generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global temperatures. 

Google conducts a life cycle assessment on products to identify materials 

and processes that contribute to GHG emissions, with the goal of  

minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 4a3

Total GHG emissions 

assuming three years of use:
45 kg CO2 e

Production

Transportation

Customer use

Recycling

73%

5%

21%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 4a uses an energy efficient DOE Level VI power adapter4 and 

incorporates power‑management software to maximize battery‑charging 

efficiency and extend battery life during use. 

Energy efficiency

of Pixel 4a

Mode

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

Power adapter average efficiency5

83.5% at 5 V output
86.0% at 9 V output

82.5% at 5 V output
85.9% at 9 V output

Power adapter no-load power6

0.02 W

Standby (battery maintenance mode) 
power7

0.21 W

Annual energy use estimate8

6 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$0.789

0.02 W

0.21 W

6 kWh

€1.3210

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 4a is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and weight 

of the Pixel 4a allows materials to be used more efficiently, thereby reducing 

the energy consumed during production and shipping as well as minimizing 

the amount of packaging.

Materials used 

in Pixel 4a

Total materials:
143 g11

42 g

Battery

29 g

Display

22 g

Plastic

5 g

Other

13 g

Electronics

15 g

Steel

17 g

Aluminum

Recycled materials

47% post-consumer recycled content across its plastic mechanical parts

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Free of cadmium, lead, and mercury1

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as 

lead, mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose

environmental and health risks. We designed the Pixel 4a to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 
hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated 
diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, 
DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and cadmium 

batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, cadmium, 

and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a

Page 4

Voluntary substance 

The Pixel 4a also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions1: 

restrictions

Mercury-free LED-backlit display

Arsenic-free glass

PVC-free

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 4a uses 98% paper and fiber-based materials. The 

chipboard material used in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled 

content. We have designed the Pixel 4a packaging to minimize its weight 

and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and allows more 

devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Packaging materials 

Material

for Pixel 4a

(U.S. configuration

retail packaging)

Paper / fiber-based

Plastic

Total packaging

Mass

 138 g

 3 g

141 g

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business operations

are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. Learn more about 

our expectations for manufacturing partners in the Google Supplier Code

of Conduct, our 2019 Responsible Supply Chain Report, and our Conflict 

Minerals Policy.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a

Page 5

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability initiatives—

including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please see our 

Sustainability website and our 2019 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help section of 

our website.

Endnotes

1. 

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances, including definitions for what Google considers 

to be “free of,” in the Google Restricted Substances Specification. 

2. 

EPEAT registered in the US only.

3.  GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 requirements 

and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the production, transportation, use, 

and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging.

4. 

Level VI is the highest available efficiency rating for power adapters as defined in the International 

Efficiency Marking Protocol for External Power Supplies Version 3.0.

5. 

Average efficiency of power adapter when input and output power is measured at 25%, 50%, 75%, and 

100% of rated output current and averaged. Tested in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy 

Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

6. 

Power measured when the power adapter is plugged into an AC power source without being 

connected to the product. Tested in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy Uniform Test 

Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies.

7. 

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with fully 

charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with the U.S. DOE Uniform 

Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers. Maintenance mode 

calculated as average power over first five hrs after charging is complete.

8. 

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will vary by 

user.

9. 

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.13 per kWh (source: U.S. Energy 

Information Agency Mar 2020 report).

10.  he average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-28 was €0.22 per kWh in the first half of 

2019 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11. 

Product material masses are for the Pixel 4a only.  For the U.S. configuration, an additional 92 g of 

electronics accesories can be included in-box.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 4a

Page 6

