Pixel 8 

Product environmental report

Model GKWS6, G9BQD
  introduced October 2023

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve 

each product’s environmental performance and minimize 

Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance of the 

Pixel 8 over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 8 is designed with the following key features to help reduce 

its environmental impact: 

UL ECOLOGO Gold1,2

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Designed with recycled aluminum to reduce its carbon footprint4

100% plastic-free packaging5

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas 

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic 

products generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global 

temperatures. Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this 

product to identify materials and processes that contribute to GHG 

emissions, with the goal of minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 8

assuming three 
years of use:6 68 kg 
CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer Use

Recycling

81%

4%

14%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 8 incorporates power-management software to maximize 

battery-charging efficiency and extend battery life during use.

Energy efficiency of 

Pixel 8

Standby (battery maintenance 
mode) power7

Annual energy use estimate8

Annual cost of energy estimate

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

0.20 W

0.21 W 

8 kWh

US$1.299

8 kWh

€2.2710

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 8 is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of the Pixel 8 allows materials to be used more efficiently, 

thereby reducing the energy consumed during production and 

shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used in 

Pixel 8

Total materials:11 
187 g

59 g

Battery

36 g

Aluminum

23 g

Display

12 g

Other

12 g

Glass

13 g

Plastic

15 g

Steel

17 g

Electronics

Recycled materials

Pixel 8 is made with at least 18% recycled materials based on 

product weight

The aluminum in the housing is 100% recycled content12

Pixel 8 uses 100% recycled tin in the solder of all rigid and 

flexible printed circuit boards, including the main logic board, 

made at the final assembly site13

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as lead, 

mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose 

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 8 to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and 

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Pixel 8 also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions:14 

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging for the Pixel 8 uses 100% plastic-free materials.5 The 

greyboard in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled 

content. We have designed the Pixel 8 packaging to minimize its 

weight and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and 

allows more devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Voluntary substance 

restrictions

Packaging

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business 

operations are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. 

Learn more about our expectations for manufacturing partners in the 

Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our 2022 Supplier Responsibility 

Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy. 

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability 

initiatives— including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please 

see our Sustainability website and our 2023 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help 

section of our website.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8

Page 5

Endnotes

1.

ECOLOGO® Certified products are certified to ECOLOGO® standards for reduced 

environmental impact. For more information, visit ul.com/el. ECOLOGO-registered in the US 

only.

2.

Pixel 8 is designed with approximately 57% recycled content across its plastic parts. This 

does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels,  cables, connectors, electronic 

components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, 

electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and adhesives.

3.

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted Substances 

Specification.

4.

Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party verified life cycle assessment. 

Recycled aluminum is at least 13% of product based on weight.

5.

Based on retail packaging (excluding adhesive materials) as shipped by Google. To meet the 

request of some clients, plastic stickers are applied to some packaging variations.

6.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 

requirements and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the 

production, transportation, use, and recycling of the product, accessories, and packaging. 

7.

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode with 

fully charged battery and attached to the power adapter using the in-box USB-C cable. 

Tested in accordance with a modified version of the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for 

Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers. Energy consumption patterns may 

vary when adaptive charging is enabled.

8.

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption will 

vary by user.

9.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.16 per kWh (source: U.S. 

Energy Information Agency Jun 2023 report).

10.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.28 per kWh in 

the second half of 2022 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11.

Product material masses are for the Pixel 8 only, excluding packaging and accessories. For 

the U.S. configuration, an additional 34 g of electronic accessories can be included in-box.

12.

Recycled aluminum is at least 13% of the product based on weight.

13.

Solder paste is made with multiple materials and contains at least 80% tin. The tin in the 

solder paste is made with 100% recycled content.

14.

Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy metals 

(lead, cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted Substances 

Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 8

Page 6

