Pixel 6a 

Product environmental report

Model GB62Z, GX7AS
  introduced July 2022

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve 

each product’s environmental performance and minimize 

Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance of the 

Pixel 6a over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 6a is designed with the following key features to help reduce 

its environmental impact: 

EPEAT Gold1

PVC-free3

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability1,2

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Designed with recycled aluminum to reduce its carbon 

footprint4

95% plastic-free packaging5

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6a

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas 

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic 

products generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global 

temperatures. Google conducted a life cycle assessment on the Pixel 

6a to identify materials and processes that contribute to GHG 

emissions, with the goal of minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 6a

assuming three years 
of use:6 65 kg CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer Use

Recycling

81%

3%

15%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 6a incorporates power-management software to maximize 

battery-charging efficiency and extend battery life during use.

Energy efficiency of 

Pixel 6a

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

Standby (battery maintenance mode) 
power7

0.23 W

0.16 W 

Annual energy use estimate8

7 kWh

7 kWh

Annual cost of energy estimate

US$0.989

€1.6810

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6a

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 6a is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of the Pixel 6a allows materials to be used more efficiently, 

thereby reducing the energy consumed during production and 

shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used in 

Pixel 6a

Total materials:11 
178 g

Recycled materials

7 g

Other

12 g

Steel

15 g

Electronics

25 g

Plastic

56 g

Battery

32 g

Display

31 g

Aluminum

Pixel 6a is made with approximately 20% 

recycled materials based on product 

weight

The aluminum in the housing is 100% 

recycled content12

Image simulated for 

illustration purposes 

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as lead, 

mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose 

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 6a to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6a

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and 

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

restrictions

Pixel 6a also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions:13 

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 6a uses 95% plastic-free materials.5 We have 

designed the Pixel 6a packaging to minimize its weight and volume, 

which helps conserve natural resources and allows more devices to 

be transported in a single shipping container.

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business 

operations are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. 

Learn more about our expectations for manufacturing partners in the 

Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our 2021 Responsible Supply Chain 

Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy. 

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability 

initiatives— including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please 

see our Sustainability website and our 2021 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help 

section of our website.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6a

Page 5

Endnotes

1.

2.

EPEAT registered in the US only.

Pixel 6a is designed with approximately 14% recycled content across its plastic parts. This 

does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 

components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 

components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and 

adhesives.

3.

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted 

Substances Specification.

4.

Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party verified life cycle assessment. 

Recycled aluminum in the housing is approximately 12% of the product based on weight.

5.

6.

Based on U.S. retail packaging weight with adhesive materials excluded.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 

requirements and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the 

production, transportation, use, and recycling of the product, accessories, and 

packaging. 

7.

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode 

with fully charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with 

the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery 

Chargers.

8.

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption 

will vary by user.

9.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.14 per kWh (source: U.S. 

Energy Information Agency Feb 2022 report).

10.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.24 per kWh in 

the second half of 2021 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11.

Product material masses are for the Pixel 6a only, excluding packaging and accessories. 

For the U.S. configuration, an additional 35 g of electronic accessories can be included 

in-box.

12.

Recycled aluminum is approximately 77% of the housing based on weight.

13.

Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy 

metals (lead, cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted 

Substances Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 6a

Page 6

