Pixel 7 

Product environmental report

Model GQML3, GVU6C
  introduced October 2022

Environmental 

sustainability 

at Google 

At Google, operating in an environmentally sustainable way 

has been a core value from the beginning. As our business 

has evolved to include the manufacturing of electronic 

products, we’ve continually expanded our efforts to improve 

each product’s environmental performance and minimize 

Google’s impact on the world around us.

This report details the environmental performance of the 

Pixel 7 over its full life cycle, from design and manufacturing 

through usage and recycling.

Product highlights

The Pixel 7 is designed with the following key features to help reduce 

its environmental impact: 

EPEAT registered 

with Gold rating 

for sustainability1,2

EPEAT and UL ECOLOGO Gold1

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Designed with recycled aluminum to reduce its carbon 

footprint4

99% plastic-free packaging5

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7

Page 2

Greenhouse Gas 

(GHG) emissions

The production, transportation, use, and recycling of electronic 

products generate GHG emissions that can contribute to rising global 

temperatures. Google conducted a life cycle assessment on this 

product to identify materials and processes that contribute to GHG 

emissions, with the goal of minimizing these emissions.

Estimated GHG emissions 

for Pixel 7

assuming three years 
of use:6 70 kg CO2e

Production

Transportation

Customer Use

Recycling

84%

3%

12%

1%

Energy efficiency

The Pixel 7 incorporates power-management software to maximize 

battery-charging efficiency and extend battery life during use.

Energy efficiency of 

Pixel 7

Standby (battery maintenance 
mode) power7

Annual energy use estimate8

Annual cost of energy estimate

115 V, 60 Hz

230 V, 50 Hz

0.16 W

0.16 W 

6 kWh

US$0.939

6 kWh

€1.429

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7

Page 3

Material use

Pixel 7 is designed to be light and compact. Minimizing the size and 

weight of the Pixel 7 allows materials to be used more efficiently, 

thereby reducing the energy consumed during production and 

shipping as well as minimizing the amount of packaging.

Materials used in 

Pixel 7

57 g

Battery

Total materials:11 
197 g

36 g

Aluminum

35 g

Display

15 g

Other

9 g

Steel

13 g

Glass

14 g

Plastic

18 g

Electronics

Recycled materials

Pixel 7 Pro is made with over 19% recycled materials based on 

product weight

The aluminum in the housing and camera bar is 100% 

recycled content12

Battery

Lithium-ion polymer

Restricted substances

Historically, many electronic devices contained materials such as lead, 

mercury, cadmium, and brominated flame retardants that pose 

environmental and health risks. We designed Pixel 7 to meet global 

regulations that restrict harmful substances, including the following:

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7

Page 4

European RoHS Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls 

(PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and four 

different phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP)

European Battery Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, and 

cadmium in batteries

European Packaging Directive restrictions on lead, mercury, 

cadmium, and hexavalent chromium in packaging

Voluntary substance 

restrictions

Pixel 7 also meets the following voluntary substance restrictions:13 

PVC-free3

Brominated Flame Retardant (BFR)-free3

Packaging

Packaging for the Pixel 7 uses 99% plastic-free materials.5 The 

greyboard in the box base and lid is made with 100% recycled 

content. We have designed the Pixel 7 packaging to minimize its 

weight and volume, which helps conserve natural resources and 

allows more devices to be transported in a single shipping container.

Ethical sourcing

Google and its subsidiaries are committed to ensuring that working 

conditions in our operations and in our supply chains are safe, that all 

workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business 

operations are environmentally responsible and ethically conducted. 

Learn more about our expectations for manufacturing partners in the 

Google Supplier Code of Conduct, our 2022 Supplier Responsibility 

Report, and our Conflict Minerals Policy. 

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7

Page 5

Learn more

For more information about our environmental sustainability 

initiatives— including case studies, white papers, and blogs—please 

see our Sustainability website and our 2022 Environmental Report.

Learn how to recycle your used device in the Google Store Help 

section of our website.

Endnotes

1.

2.

EPEAT and UL registered in the US only.

Pixel 7 is designed with approximately 65% recycled content across its plastic parts. This 

does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic 

components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 

components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings and 

adhesives.

3.

Google defines its restrictions on harmful substances in the Google Restricted 

Substances Specification.

4.

Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party verified life cycle assessment. 

Recycled aluminum in the housing is approximately 11% of product based on weight.

5.

6.

Based on U.S. retail packaging weight with adhesive materials excluded.

GHG emissions estimates are calculated in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 

requirements and guidelines for conducting life cycle assessments, and include the 

production, transportation, use, and recycling of the product, accessories, and 

packaging. 

7.

Power measured with phone connected to cellular and WiFi networks in standby mode 

with fully charged battery and attached to the power adapter. Tested in accordance with 

a modified version of the U.S. DOE Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy 

Consumption of Battery Chargers. Energy consumption patterns may vary when 

adaptive charging is enabled.

8.

Based on average charging of previous generation devices. Actual energy consumption 

will vary by user.

9.

The average residential cost of energy for U.S. households is $0.15 per kWh (source: U.S. 

Energy Information Agency June 2022 report).

10.

The average household cost of energy for consumers in the EU-27 was €0.24 per kWh in 

the second half of 2021 (source: Eurostat Statistics Explained).

11.

Product material masses are for the Pixel 7 only, excluding packaging and accessories. 

For the U.S. configuration, an additional 34 g of electronic accessories can be included 

in-box.

12.

Recycled aluminum is at least 11% of product based on weight.

13.

Google continues to restrict arsenic content in glass, mercury in displays, and heavy 

metals (lead, cadmium, and mercury) in batteries as listed in Google’s Restricted 

Substances Specification.

Product Environmental Report

Pixel 7

Page 6

